Chapter I
Scope of application
§ 1. (1) The provisions of this Federal Act shall apply to the employment relationship of employees who provide domestic services for their employer or members of such employer’s household, regardless of whether or not they are residing in the employer’s household.
(2) Employees within the meaning of Para 1 above shall include persons who provide services of a more qualified type (domestic employees).
(3) In applying this Act, no difference shall be made whether the household is managed by a natural person or legal person for its members or for a third party. However, the Act shall not apply to an employment relationship of employees of legal persons when such relationship is governed by a collective bargaining agreement.
(4) The provisions of this Federal Act shall not apply to:
	a)	employment relationships of employees who, in addition to the services referred to in Para (1) above, regularly, albeit to a minor extent, render services for an activity of the employer that serves a commercial, agricultural, forestry or other gainful purpose and where their employment relationship from this service is already regulated by a special act under the labour law;
	b)	employment relationships of the type regulated in Paras (1) through (3) above when the employee has an employment relationship with:
	1.	a federal, state or local authority, a municipality or operation, foundation, fund or institution provided that such facilities are managed by bodies of any of the aforementioned territorial authorities or by individuals appointed for such purpose by such authorities,
	2.	any other corporation under public law or operation, foundation, fund or institution provided that such facilities are managed by bodies of any of these corporations or by individuals appointed for such purpose by such corporations;
	c)	employment-relationships of the type regulated in Paras (1) and (2) above if the employee is employed in a therapeutic or care institution, regardless of whether such institution is managed by a territorial authority or other corporation under public law.
Chapter II
General terms
Conclusion and content of the employment contract
§ 2. (1) Upon entering into the employment relationship, the principal rights and duties arising from this relationship shall be recorded in a so-called “Dienstschein” as shown in the specimen (Annex to this Federal Act). The Dienstschein shall be signed by the employer and employee, or, in the case of an under-age employee, his/her legal representative; a copy of the Dienstschein shall be handed over to the employee. These provisions shall also apply to any amendment or addition to the rights and duties recorded in the Dienstschein. The Dienstschein shall be exempt from any tax and legal fee.
(2) Upon entering into the employment relationship, the employer shall hand over to the employee a copy of this Federal Act as amended as well as any applicable collective bargaining agreements or minimum rates or an instruction sheet on employment contracts for domestic help published by the employees’ statutory interest group.
(3) The employee shall render his/her services in person and shall comply with any instructions by the employer that are justified by the object of the service. The employee shall handle the persons and objects entrusted to his/her care in accordance with his/her duties, safeguard the employer’s interests within the scope of the employment relationship and observe the moral and ethical standards. The employee shall furthermore be obliged to keep confidential all observations that concern the family life of the employer and any other member of the household.
Compensation
§ 3. (1) The remuneration shall be payable in arrears, but not later than on the last day of the relevant calendar month. Where board wages have been agreed, they shall be payable twice a month in advance. In any event, the compensation already earned shall become due and payable not later than at the termination of the employment relationship.
(2) Where the provisions of this Federal Act provide for benefits in kind to be compensated in money, the calculation of such in-kind benefits shall use the assessment rates defined for the purposes of social insurance, except when more favourable provisions should exist.
§ 4. (1) If the employee resides in the household and is assigned a separate living room of his/her own, such room shall comply with the health, construction and fire regulations and shall be designed so as not to harm the employee’s morals; it shall be possible to heat such room during the period when outdoor temperatures require heating, also to lock it from in- and outside, and it shall have the requisite fittings, including, without limitation, a cupboard with a lock.
(2) If the employee cannot be assigned a separate living room of his/her own but is only given a bed, the provision of Para (1) above shall apply to the room in which such bed is placed; except that it is only necessary to make provision for locking such room from inside.
(3) Employees whose compensation also includes the board shall be given healthy and adequate food which generally corresponds to the food given to the adult healthy family members.
Working hours and payment for additional work
§ 5. (1) The working hours, including those hours when the employee needs to be available for carrying out his/her work, shall not exceed the following scope within two calendar weeks:
	1.	for employees residing in their employer’s household
	a)	before completion of their 18th year of age
from 5 January 1970 …..……… 106 hours,
from 3 January 1972 ………..… 104 hours,
from 6 January 1975 ………..… 100 hours,
	b)	after completion of their 18th year of age
from 5 January 1970 ……..…… 116 hours,
from 3 January 1972 …….……. 114 hours,
from 6 January 1975 ……..…… 110 hours.
	2.	for employees not residing in their employer’s household
	a)	before completion of their 18th year of age
from 5 January 1970 …………….84 hours,
from 3 January 1972 …………….82 hours,
from 6 January 1975 …………….80 hours,
	b)	after completion of their 18th year of age
from 5 January 1970 ……..……. 92 hours,
from 3 January 1972 ……...…… 90 hours,
from 6 January 1975 ……..……. 86 hours.
The employee’s compensation shall not be reduced due to the reduction in working hours impending as provided in Sub-paras 1 and 2 above (pay compensation).
(2) The daily working hours shall be mutually agreed between the employer and employee, with due regard to the provisions of Section 6, so that the employee shall be guaranteed enjoyment of the periods of rest and breaks from work provided in Paras (3) and (4) below.
(3) Employees residing in the employer’s household who have completed their 18th year of age shall be granted a period of rest of at least 10 hours which period shall include the time between 9 pm and 6 am, or, if they have not yet completed their 18th year of age, a period of rest of at least 12 hours which period shall include the time between 8 pm and 7 am. The daily working hours shall, furthermore, be interrupted by breaks totalling at least 3 hours, where at least two uninterrupted periods of 30 minutes each shall be granted for the purpose of consuming the main meals.
(4) Employees not residing in the employer’s household who have completed their 18th year of age shall be granted a period of rest of at least 13 hours which period shall include the time between 9 pm and 6 am, or, if they have not yet completed their 18th year of age, a period of rest of at least 15 hours which period shall include the time between 8 pm and 7 am. The daily working hours shall, furthermore and if they exceed 4.5 hours, be interrupted by one or more predefined breaks of a minimum duration as specified below. Such breaks shall be at least:
for working hours > 4.5 hours to ≤ 6 hours ........................................... 20 minutes,
for working hours > 6 hours to ≤ 8 hours ............…………………...... 30 minutes,
for working hours 8 – 9 hours ………………............…...……………. 45 minutes,
for working hours > 9 hours ................................................................... 60 minutes.
(5) The working hours as provided in Para (1) above may be exceeded in exceptional cases only. If no compensatory period of rest is granted for such excessive working hours within the next 2 calendar weeks, a special payment shall be due for such additional working hours. The payment shall be the remuneration for these working hours plus a surcharge amounting to the applicable minimum rates. The same shall apply for additional work on Sundays or legal holidays when no compensatory period of rest is granted for such additional work.
(6) The breaks and periods of night’s rest as provided in Paras (3) and (4) above may be interrupted only when the employee’s work is required during such periods for urgent, unpostponable or unpreventable reasons. A surcharge is due for such work, regardless of whether or not time is granted to compensate for the reduction in the breaks or periods of night’s rest. The amount of surcharge shall be defined in the applicable minimum rates.
(7) When the employer’s household includes infants, i.e. children up to completion of their third year of age, or when the employer him/herself or other members of his/her household are disabled to an extent that they need constant care which is not otherwise ensured, working hours may be agreed which deviate from the provisions of Paras (1) and (2) above, as well as leisure periods deviating from the provisions of Para (1) of Section 6 and breaks and periods of rest deviating from the provisions of Paras (3) and (4) above. Such agreement, however, shall not cause the working hours to exceed the scope defined in Paras (1) and (2) above for two consecutive weeks by more than 18 hours. The time spent on breaks, rest periods and leisure periods shall not be less than the total period provided. Payment of such additional work shall be governed by the provisions of Paras (5) and (6) above. Such agreements shall, however, be valid only when specified in writing in the Dienstschein (Para (1) of Section 2).
(8) An employee who is employed by several employers shall inform each of his/her employers of such fact.
Time-off and payment for work on legal holidays
§ 6. (1) Employees are entitled to a leisure period each week which shall commence not later than 2 pm on a working day to be agreed and end upon the time the employee is on duty again on the next following day. On such day, the breaks as defined in Paras (3) and (4) of Section 5 shall be omitted. In addition, employees shall be entitled to an off-duty Sunday once every two weeks. Such leisure period shall commence upon the time the employee goes off duty on Saturday and shall end at the time the employee is on duty again on Monday.
(2) On those Sundays which are not off-duty for the employee and on legal holidays, the on-duty period must not exceed 6 hours. On such days, the breaks as defined in Paras (3) and (4) of Section 5 shall be omitted. If the employee is requested to work on a Sunday that would otherwise be off-duty, the next following Sunday shall be fully exempt from work, regardless of the duration of work performed on the previous Sunday.
(3) If an employee does not consume in-kind benefits during a leisure period as defined in Paras (1) and (2) above, such benefits shall be compensated in cash pursuant to the provisions of Para (2) of Section 3, provided that the employer has informed his/her employee of such non-consumption in good time.
(4) The employee shall be granted the time required by him/her to perform his/her religious duties. Such time shall be mutually agreed by the employer and employee and it shall not be counted against the leisure periods provided in Paras (1) and (2) above nor against the breaks and periods of rest due under Paras (3) and (4) of Section 5.
(5) For any work rendered on legal holidays, a compensation shall be paid that shall be calculated in accordance with the Ordinance Governing Wage Payments on Legal Holidays, State Law Gazette no. 212/1945.
Protection of young and under-age employees
§ 7. (1) When young people are employed, special consideration shall be given to their physical capacities. The employer shall take measures to safeguard the morals as are advisable due to the age and gender of the young people. When entering service, the young person shall be advised of any hazards which may be associated with the service and instructed of the facilities provided to ward off such hazards and their use.
(2) The young person shall be given a medical examination at least once every six months in order to monitor the state of his/her health.
(3) The parents or guardians of the young person shall be authorised to transfer their educational powers, with the exception of the right to inflict corporal punishment, to the employer, provided that such employer is of age.
Welfare obligation
§ 8. In regulating individual services, the employer shall ensure that neither the work requested nor the working tools and environments constitute a hazard to the employee’s life, health, morals and property. In complying with this obligation, the employer shall give due consideration to the employee’s age, gender and general condition.
Holiday
§ 9. (1) The employee shall be entitled to an uninterrupted holiday in each year of service, which holiday shall, except as otherwise provided below, be governed by the provisions of Chapter 1 of Article I of the Federal Act of 7 July 1976 Governing Harmonisation of the Holiday Law and Introduction of Care/Nursing Leave, Federal Law Gazette no. 390.
(2) During such holiday, the employee shall be entitled to a holiday bonus in addition to the benefits in kind payable pursuant to Para (2) of Section 3 and the monetary remuneration due for the same period. This holiday bonus shall be double the monthly monetary remuneration if the employee’s service counting towards the holiday entitlement is less than 20 years, or 2.5 times of the monthly monetary remuneration if such period exceeds 20 years.
(Note: Para (2a) repealed by Article 48 Sub-para 1, Federal Law Gazette I no. 100/2018)
(3) If the holiday is commenced on a Monday or ends on a Saturday, a non-working Sunday (Para (1) of Section 6) shall precede or succeed, as the case may be, the commencement or end of the holiday. On Sundays and legal holidays during such holiday, the employee shall be released of his/her service duty.
Prevention of work
§ 10. (1) If, after commencing his/her employment, the employee is prevented from working due to illness (accident) without having caused such prevention intentionally or by gross negligence, the employee shall retain his/her claim for remuneration for a period of up to six weeks. The claim for remuneration shall be prolonged to eight weeks when the employment relationship has already existed for one year; to ten weeks for an employment relationship of 15 years; and to twelve weeks for an uninterrupted employment relationship of 25 years. In each case, the employee shall be entitled to claim half the remuneration for an additional four weeks.
(2) Any stays for a cure and recovery, stays at hospitals and nursing homes, rehabilitation centres or homes of convalescence approved or ordered, at their cost, by a social insurance carrier, the Federal Ministry for Social Affairs under Para (4) of Section 12 of the Victims Assistance Act, a provincial disability office or a provincial government under an act regulating disability for reasons of preserving, improving or restoring an individual’s working capacity shall be treated same as a prevention of service as defined in Para (1) above, notwithstanding any contributory payment made by the insured (injured) person.
(3) If the claim for remuneration under Paras (1) and (2) above has been exhausted in any given year of employment, and the employee is again prevented from working due to illness (accident) in the same year of employment, he/she shall be entitled to the remuneration for up to two weeks in each case or, if the employment relationship has been valid for more than six months, for up to four weeks in each case.
(4) If the employee is prevented from working due to an accident sustained at work or an occupational disease within the meaning of the regulations by the statutory accident insurance institution, he/she shall be entitled to continue receiving his/her remuneration for up to eight weeks already from the start of the employment relationship. The claim for remuneration shall increase to ten weeks when the employment relationship has lasted uninterrupted for 15 years.
(5) If a stay as defined in Para (2) above is approved or ordered after an accident sustained at work or an occupational disease, the claim shall be governed by Para (4) above.
(6) The employee shall also retain the right to his/her remuneration when he/she is temporarily prevented from working by other important grounds relating to his/her person and due to no fault of his/her.
§ 11. (1) The employee may not be dismissed with legal effect for any grounds specified in Paras (1) through (5) of Section 10.
(2) The employee may not be dismissed with legal effect for any prevention from working for any of the grounds specified in Para (6) of Section 10, except when such prevention exceeds a period of four weeks.
(3) If the employee is given notice to quit while being prevented from working, prematurely dismissed without good cause or leaves prematurely due to the employer’s fault, the employee’s claim for continued remuneration will remain intact for periods specified in Section 10 regardless of whether or not the employment relationship is terminated early. The employee’s claim for continued remuneration will also remain intact if the employment relationship will be finished amicably during being prevented from working or with regard to being prevented from working.
(4) The claims listed in Section 10 shall lapse upon termination of the employment relationship if it is terminated due to expiry of the time for which it has been entered or due to any notice given before the prevention from working occurs. The same shall apply when the employment relationship is terminated early due to the employee’s fault.
§ 11a. The provisions of Para 3, the second sentence of Para (5) and Para 7 of Section 2, of Sections 4, 6 and 7 and of Chapter 2 of the Act Governing Continued Payment of Remuneration, Federal Law Gazette no. 399/1974, as amended in Federal Law Gazette I no. 44/2000 shall apply.
§ 12. (1) If the employer either temporarily or permanently relocates his/her household or temporarily dissolves it or if household management is temporarily closed down, an employee residing in the household who does not relocate with the household shall be due, in addition to his/her ongoing remuneration and for as long as the employment relationship has not been terminated, a compensation for any in-kind benefits thus not obtained, the amount of which shall be calculated pursuant to Para (2) of Section 3.
(2) The compensation determined in Para (1) above shall also be due to employees not residing in the household.
Termination of the employment relationship
§ 13. (1) The employment relationship shall terminate upon expiry of the period for which it was entered.
(2) If the employment relationship has been entered or continued without specifying any period, it may be terminated at any time by notice. The period of notice shall be two weeks; by mutual agreement it may be reduced to not less than one week. For employment relationships regarding higher-skilled services the period of notice shall be six weeks; by mutual agreement it may be reduced to not less than one month, and it shall always end on the 15th or last day of a given month.
(3) The period of notice must be identical for both parties. If non-identical periods were agreed, the longer period shall apply to both parties.
(4) If a trial period has been agreed, the employment relationship may be terminated by either party promptly during such period and without observance of a period of notice. Any agreed trial period shall not be longer than one week.
§ 14. If an employment relationship has been entered for a limited period, it may be terminated early by either party for good cause, but otherwise without observance of a date or period of notice.
§ 15. (1) If an employer withdraws from the employment contract without good cause before its commencement, the employee shall be entitled to claim the remuneration for the period which would have passed until termination of the employment relationship by expiry of the agreed term or until termination of the employment relationship by proper notice, deducting what he/she saved due to not rendering the work or what he/she earned by other work or intentionally failed to earn. Any further claim for damages shall not be affected thereby. If the said period does not exceed three months, the remuneration due shall be payable without any deductions.
(2) If an employee withdraws from the employment contract without good cause before its commencement, the employer shall be entitled to claim damages for any loss suffered by him/her through the non-performance of the contract.
Time-off during the period of notice
§ 16. (1) When notice is given by the employer, any employee residing in the employer’s household shall, upon his/her request, be released from his/her duties for an adequate period during the period of notice, but not less than one fifth of his/her regular weekly working hours per week, without any reduction of his/her remuneration.
(2) The provisions of Para (1) above shall not apply to employees not residing in the employer’s household, who shall be released from their duties weekly to an extent corresponding to one sixth of their weekly working hours, but not less than four hours.
(3) No claims under Paras (1) and (2) above shall arise when the employee is entitled to a pension from the statutory pension insurance scheme, provided that the pension insurance institution has issued a certificate on the temporary health insurance (Para (7) of Section 10 ASVG).
(Note: Para (4) repealed by Article 48 Sub-para 1, Federal Law Gazette I no. 100/2018)
(5) Derogatory regulations may be agreed by a collective bargaining agreement.
§ 17. (1) If the employment relationship is terminated after an uninterrupted duration of at least ten years, the employee shall be due a special remuneration calculated on the basis of the monetary remuneration due for the last month of the employment relationship (the last month prior to changing the working hours) including the pro rata shares of bonus payments (Christmas bonus, etc.) (basis of assessment). The special remuneration shall be triple the assessment basis after an uninterrupted employment of at least ten years, and it shall increase by three fifths of the assessment basis for each additional completed year of employment, up to a maximum of twelve times the assessment basis.
(Note: Para (1a) repealed by Article 48 Sub-para 1, Federal Law Gazette I no. 100/2018)
(2) No title to the special remuneration pursuant to Para (1) above shall accrue when the employment relationship is terminated early due to the employee’s fault.
(3) An employment relationship shall be deemed to be uninterrupted even when it was interrupted due to the employee being prevented from working (Section 10) and the employment relationship has been continued once the circumstance causing the prevention has ceased to exist, but not later than after six months have expired, where the period of interruption is not counted towards calculation of the period of employment controlling the special remuneration.
(4) If the employment relationship is terminated by the employee’s death, half the special remuneration shall be due to such of his/her legal heirs who were legally entitled to be maintained by such employee.
Character reference
§ 18. (1) Upon termination of the employment relationship, the employer shall be obliged to give, at his/her cost, the employee a written character reference specifying the term and type of employment. The reference shall not include any other information.
(2) If the employee requests such a character reference during the term of his/her employment, it shall be given to him/her at his/her cost by the employer. The content of such a character reference shall be governed by Para (1) above.
Application of the Civil Code
§ 19. Except as otherwise provided in this Federal Act, the provisions of the Civil Code shall apply to employment relationships governed by this Federal Act.
Mandatory provisions
§ 20. Except as otherwise provided in this Federal Act, the rights due to the employee from this Federal Act shall not be abrogated nor limited by any collective agreement, minimum wages or individual employment contract. Any statement concerning claims for remuneration made by the employee during the valid employment relationship or within one week of its termination shall be legally ineffective.
Chapter IV
Common regulations and concluding provisions
Prohibition to employ persons under age
§ 22. (1) If a person has been finally convicted of a criminal act directed against the life, health or physical safety of people or offending against morality, the district administrative authority may forbid the convicted person and the persons living in the same household with such persons for a specified period or forever to employ persons under age if, given the circumstances of the case, it is feared that such persons may be at risk.
(2) An employer against whom a ban within the meaning of Para (1) above is imposed shall be obliged to promptly terminate any existing employment relationship with an employee who is under age.
Penal provisions
§ 23. Employers who offend against the provisions of Para (1) of Section 2, Section 4, Paras (1), (3) and (4) of Section 5, Paras (1) and (2) of Section 6, Para (1) of Section 7 or Sections 8 and 22 shall, except when their offence is subject to a more severe punishment, be punished by a fine of up to € 290 in the case of an offence, including any attempt at such an offence, against the provision of Section 22, and by a fine of up to € 218 in all other cases.
Transitional provisions
§ 25. (1) The provisions of this Federal Act shall, except where otherwise provided in Paras (2) and (3) below, apply also to employment relationships that existed already at the date when this Act entered into force.
(2) The duration of a trial period agreed before this Federal Act entered into force shall not be affected by the provisions of this Federal Act.
(3) The provisions regarding issuance of a Dienstschein shall apply to all employment relationships existing already at the time this Federal Act entered into force, with the proviso that such Dienstschein shall be issued and handed over within one month of the date on which this Federal Act enters into force.
(4) Section 17 shall no longer be applied to employment relationships whose contractually agreed commencement is after 31 December 2002, except when otherwise regulated by an ordinance pursuant to the last sentence of Para (1) of Section 46 of the Act Governing Employee Retirement and Severance Pay Provision, Federal Law Gazette I no. 100/2002. It shall, however, continue to be applied to employment relationships whose contractually agreed commencement is before 1 January 2003 or a date determined by an ordinance. To the extent that an agreement is made pursuant to Paras (1) and (3) of Section 47 BMVG, such provisions shall be applied until this agreement enters into force.
Amendment and inoperativeness of provisions
§ 26. (1) In statutory regulations which include a reference to the Domestic Help Act, State Law Gazette no. 101/1920, such provisions shall be replaced by the respective provisions of this Federal Act.
(2) The Federal Act of 26 February 1920, State Law Gazette no. 101, on the service contract for domestic help as amended shall cease to have effect.
Entry into force and execution
§ 27. (1) This Federal Act shall enter into force on 1 September 1962.
(2) Execution of this Federal Act shall be entrusted to the Federal Minister of Economics and Labour.
(3) Section 1 of this Federal Act as amended in the Federal Act of Federal Law Gazette no. 833/1992 shall enter into force on 1 January 1993. At the same time Chapter III shall cease to be effective.
(4) Para (2a) of Section 9, the first sentence of Para (1) and Para (1a) of Section 17 as amended in the Federal Act of Federal Law Gazette no. 335/1993 shall enter into force on 1 July 1993.
(5) The enclosure to Para (1) of Section 2 as amended in the Federal Act of Federal Law Gazette no. 459/1993 shall enter into force simultaneously with the Agreement on the European Economic Area. In the case of employment relationships entered into before such date, the employee shall be, upon his/her request, issued a Dienstschein within the meaning of this Act within two months. The employer shall not be subject to such obligation if any Dienstzettel issued formerly includes all information required under this Federal Act.
(6) Section 16 as amended in the Federal Act of Federal Law Gazette no. 502/1993 shall enter into force on 1 August 1993.
(7) Section 11a as amended in the Federal Act of Federal Law Gazette I no. 44/2000 shall enter into force on 1 July 2000.
(8) Paras (1) and (6) of Section 10 as amended in the Federal Act of Federal Law Gazette I no. 44/2000 shall enter into force on 1 January 2001 and shall be applied to preventions of work occurring in working years after 31 December 2000.
(9) Paras (1) and (3) through (5) of Section 16 as amended in the Federal Act of Federal Law Gazette I no. 44/2000 shall enter into force on 1 January 2001.
(10) Section 23 as amended in the Federal Act of Federal Law Gazette I no. 98/2001 shall enter into force on 1 January 2002.
(11) Para (4) of Section 25 as amended in the Federal Act of Federal Law Gazette I no. 100/2002 shall enter into force on 1 July 2002.
(12) Para (1) of Section 10 as amended in the Federal Law Act of Federal Law Gazette I no. 153/2017 shall enter into force on 1 July 2018 and shall be applied to preventions of work occurring in working years after 30 June 2018. For at this point of time continuous preventions of work para (1) of Section 10 as amended in the Federal Law Act of Federal Law Gazette I no. 153/2017 shall be applied from the beginning of this working year.
(13) Para (3) of Section 11 as amended in the Federal Law Act of Federal Law Gazette I no. 153/2017 shall enter into force on 1 July 2018 and shall be applied for amicable endings of employment status during preventions of work or with regard to aprevention of work which produce a solution of the employment status after 30 June 2018.
*) The publication of the agreement and its entry into force will happen at a later time.
Annex
Dienstschein
	1.	Employer’s name and address: …………………………………………..
	2.	Employee’s name and address: …………………………………………..
	3.	Employee’s date of birth: …….………………………….……………….
	4.	Commencement, and if employment relationship is entered for a predetermined period, also end of employment relationship: …….……
	5.	Agreed period of notice: …………..……………………………………..
	6.	Which trial period was agreed: (max. 1 week) …………………………..
	7.	Place of work: ……………………………………………………………
	8.	Household duty: …………………………….……………………………
	Domestic-help with/out cooking .………………………………………..
	cook ……………………………………………………………….……..
	House-keeper …………………………………………………………….
	nanny …………………………………………………………………….
	Baby-nurse ……………………………………………………………….
	Sick-nurse ………………………………………………………….…….
	Graduate-baby-nurse …………………………………………………..
	Graduate-sick-nurse …………………………………………………....
	Qualified kindergarten nurse …………………………………………….
	Qualified governess/tutor ………………………………………………..
	odd-jobber …………………………………………………………………
	9.	Type of special services: e.g. sick nursing, child care, vehicle grooming, gardening, pet care, etc. …………………………………………………..
	10.	Monthly (weekly) remuneration agreed: …………
	11.	Remuneration for special services: ………………
	12.	Employee’s share of social insurance contribution is paid by the employer: yes/no1
	13.	Agreed payments in kind: 
	breakfast, elevenses, lunch, afternoon tea, evening meal
	14.	If no payment in kind is given, amount in compensation: breakfast ………., elevenses ………., lunch ………., 
afternoon tea …………, evening meal ……………
	15. a)	Is lodging provided: … yes/no1
	b)	Is a bed provided: … yes/no1
	16.	Period of annual holidays: ……………………………...………………….
	17.	Working hours: on weekdays from ..……….. to ………....
	On Sundays and legal holidays from ………….. to …..........
	18.	Opportunity to go to mass on Sundays and ecclesiastical holidays from ……….…. to ……….…..
	19.	One free afternoon in the week as of 2 pm is agreed (for: Monday – Tuesday – Wednesday – Thursday – Friday – Saturday)
	20.	Derogatory agreement of working hours, leisure hours, periods of rest and breaks in the cases of Para 7 of § 5 ………………...……………………
	21.	Applicable minimum wage rate: …………………………………………..
……..…………., this ……………………………
………..………………                              …………………………
(Employer’s signature)                              (Employee’s signature)
1) delete as appropriate
