Scope of application
§ 1. (1) This Federal Act shall apply to:
	1.	the marking of sales and basic prices of goods (prices of goods), provided such goods are offered to consumers by entrepreneurs (§ 1 of the Consumer Protection Act, Federal Law Gazette no. 140/1979 as amended) on a commercial basis;
	2.	the marking of prices of services which are offered subject to the 1994 Industrial Code as amended, provided that such services are offered to consumers by entrepreneurs (§ 1 of the Consumer Protection Act, Federal Law Gazette no. 140/1979 as amended).
	3.	the marking of prices of air travels, provided that such travels are offered to consumers by air carriers (§ 101 of the Aviation Act, Federal Law Gazette no. 253/1957 as amended).
(2) This Federal Act shall not apply to:
	1.	services the price marking of which is regulated in other federal acts;
	2.	real assets offered within the scope of a service.
Marking obligation
§ 2. (1) Entrepreneurs shall mark the prices of goods provided that such goods are:
	1.	visibly displayed, or
	2.	in any other way made available for sale on the business premises.
(2) Where display dummies or mock-ups are displayed instead of the actual goods, they shall be treated with regard to marking in the same way as are genuine goods.
(3) Paras 1 and 2 above shall not apply to auctions or works of art and antiques.
§ 3. (1) The Federal Minister of Economic Affairs shall order by an ordinance that specified entrepreneurs must mark the prices of their typical services where this is required in order to allow quick and simple comparison of prices or is otherwise required in the interest of consumers. This shall be assumed in particular when an investigation pursuant to § 5 of the 1992 Price Act finds that several entrepreneurs pursue an unjustified price policy (§ 5 para 5 of the 1992 Price Act).
(2) Where other entrepreneurs than those named in an ordinance pursuant to para 1 above render services the prices of which must be marked in accordance with such ordinance, the said entrepreneurs shall also mark the prices of such services.
Type of marking
§ 4. (1) The prices of visibly displayed goods shall be marked so that any normally attentive observer is able to read and identify them easily. This shall also apply to goods sold by automatic vending machines.
(2) The prices of other goods than those referred to in para 1 above and of services shall be marked by lists. The price lists for services shall be put up at a clearly visible location on the business premises. The price lists for goods may alternatively be laid out on the business premises or made available for inspection by the customer.
§ 5. The Federal Minister of Economic Affairs shall order by an ordinance that specified entrepreneurs shall mark the prices for specified goods and services in such a way that they are clearly legible from both inside and outside the place of business if such procedure is suitable to inform the customer of the price in good time prior to the customer’s decision with regard to acquiring the good or availing him of the service.
Hotel and/or restaurant businesses
§ 6. (1) Hotel and/or restaurant businesses shall provide for a sufficient number of price lists ("menus") for the food and beverages offered by them and shall present them to each guest prior to taking their orders and, upon the guest's request, upon settlement of the bill.
(2) Para 1 above shall not apply to small businesses, provided that the guests can obtain the prices from menus put up in the public rooms in full view of the guests.
(3) Where a hotel and/or restaurant business is operated as a self-service business, in derogation of paras 1 and 2 above the prices for the food and beverages provided for self-service shall be marked pursuant to § 4 para 1, while the prices for other food and beverages shall be marked by menus which are put up in full view of the guests.
(4) Hotel and/or restaurant businesses which regularly serve or sell hot food shall furthermore put up a menu next to or in the vicinity of the entrance door which can be read from outside and which lists the prices for the offered food.
§ 7. If prices for accommodation are stated, § 13 para 1 shall apply to them. The prices shall be freely determined by the hotel and/or restaurant business and must not be limited by booking platforms by means of resale price maintenance clauses or best-price clauses. Such clauses in contracts between hotel and/or restaurant business and booking platforms shall be absolutely void. Furthermore, the standard room price categories shall be visibly displayed in the entrance area.
Content of the price markings
§ 9. (1) The prices shall be marked inclusive of VAT and all other taxes and charges whatsoever (gross prices).
(2) The prices shall be marked in the Austrian currency.
(3) Where the price is additionally marked in whole or in part in a foreign currency, the price to be marked under paras 1 and 2 above shall be made out in at least equal font size and noticeability.
(4) Where the net price is given as well, the gross price shall be marked directly adjacent to such price.
(5) The marking of prices of air services has to comply with Article 23 of Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community, OJ L 293, 31/10/2008, p. 3.
§ 9a. (1) If price reductions for goods are indicated in absolute amounts or as a percentage, entrepreneurs shall also mark the previous lowest price charged at least once in the same sales channel within a period of 30 days before the price reduction was applied. If the price reduction is of a gradually increasing nature, the previous price shall be the lowest non-reduced price as described in the first sentence before the price reduction was first applied.
(2) If goods have been on the market for less than 30 days, entrepreneurs shall mark the lowest price charged at least once in the same sales channel within the period during which the good has been on the market instead of the price pursuant to para 1.
(3) If the goods are highly perishable or have a short shelf-life, paras 1 and 2 shall not be applied if the price reduction is granted due to the expiry of the date of minimum durability as defined in point (r) of Article 2 para 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers, OJ L 304, 22/11/2011, p. 18, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 2015/2283, OJ L 327, 11/12/2015, p. 1.
§ 10. (1) The prices for goods shall be marked together with a specification of the customary quality identification and sales unit. For pre-packed and pre-portioned goods the price shall be marked per package.
(2) Where, with regard to self-service, the price is not marked on the good or its wrapping (container) and where an automatic scanning system is used for making out the bill, the bill shall include next to the price for each good its commercial designation or a generally understandable abbreviation thereof.
(3) Entrepreneurs who supply goods for the disposal of which they charge separately shall mark such charges in the manner set forth in § 4 para 1.
§ 10a. (1) Goods which are offered by volume, weight, length or space shall be marked, together with the sales price, with the price per unit of measurement (basic price) unless otherwise provided herein below.
(2) For goods which are weighed or measured in the consumers’ presence and which are not pre-packaged (goods offered for sale in loose condition), only the basic price needs to be marked.
(3) The unit of measurement underlying the basic price shall be 1 kilogram, 1 litre, 1 metre, 1 square metre or 1 cubic metre respectively, unless otherwise provided in an ordinance issued pursuant to § 10c para 3.
(4) The basic price need not be marked where such basic price is identical with the sales price.
(5) For goods where the drained weight needs to be marked, the basic price shall refer to the drained weight specified.
§ 10b. (1) no. marking of the basic price within the meaning of § 10a shall be necessary for:
	1.	goods other than foodstuff pursuant to § 2 of the 1975 Foodstuff Act, Federal Law Gazette no. 86/1975 (note: since 21 January 2006: Foodstuff Safety and Consumer Protection Act, Federal Law Gazette I no. 13/2006) as amended, unless otherwise provided in any ordinance issued pursuant to § 10c para 2;
	2.	goods of a nominal weight or nominal volume of less than 20 grams or 20 millilitres;
	3.	mixtures of goods offered for an overall price;
	4.	ready-cooked meals and concentrated as well as dietary food which, by the addition of liquid, become ready cooked meals or ready-cooked part-meals, and goods in concentrated form which state the volume of liquid required for preparation.
(2) Marking of a new basic price within the meaning of § 10a shall not be necessary for:
	1.	foodstuffs where the sales price is reduced due to such foodstuffs reaching the end of its shelf-life or being on the brink of spoiling;
	2.	real assets of unequal nominal weight or nominal volume, or unequal nominal length and nominal space, of the same basic price when the sales price is temporarily reduced by a uniform amount.
(3) Entrepreneurs,
	1.	which employ not more than nine full-time workers in their overall enterprise, or
	2.	which operate their enterprise solely or mostly as a customer-serving operation and which employ not more than 50 full-time workers in their overall enterprise, or
	3.	whose place of business has a sales space of not more than 250 square metres, unless such place of business is part of an enterprise that operates more than ten outlets, or
	4.	which offer goods for sales on occasional markets within the meaning of § 286 para 2 of the 1994 Industrial Code as amended or by mobile sales facilities,
shall not be obliged to mark the basic price within the meaning of § 10a.
§ 10c. (1) The Federal Minister of Economics and Labour shall, by an ordinance, specify foodstuffs or groups of foodstuffs for which marking of the basic price within the meaning of § 10a is not required because such marking, due to the properties or purpose of such goods, is either not useful or liable to create confusion among consumers.
(2) The Federal Minister of Economics and Labour shall, by an ordinance, designate:
	1.	goods other than foodstuffs,
	2.	goods offered per piece,
where the basic price within the meaning of § 10a shall be marked when this is required for the better information of consumers and to make price comparisons easy and reliable for consumers.
(3) The Federal Minister of Economics and Labour may, by an ordinance, define a single other unit of quantity than 1 kilogram, 1 litre, 1 metre, 1 square metre or 1 cubic metre as reference unit for marking the basic price for goods for which the basic price within the meaning of § 10a must be marked, provided that such other unit of quantity is customary or generally used for such goods.
(4) The Federal Minister of Economics and Labour may, by an ordinance, in addition to entrepreneurs pursuant to § 10b para 3, exempt other entrepreneurs from their obligation to mark the basic price within the meaning of § 10a for which such obligation would constitute an excessive burden due to the number of products offered for sale, the space available for sale, the type of selling place, the conditions ruling certain types of trade where the product is not directly accessible to the consumer, or certain forms of business activities, such as certain types of mobile transactions.
§ 11. (1) The prices for services shall be stated together with information on the type and scope of the service concerned. Where general practice provides for such, the price for a service unit may be given instead of the price for the overall service.
(2) Prices charged for travelling to or from the consumer shall be summarised as travelling costs and shall be stated separately.
(3) Where a minimum working time, minimum work value, minimum travelling time or minimum travelling distance is charged, the prices for such shall be stated as well.
(4) Where the price of one hour of work is given, the entrepreneur shall put on display a list indicating the work values charged for each service.
(5) Where different prices are charged for the work depending on the qualification or number of individuals used (crews), the qualification or number of individuals which determines the price difference shall be listed next to each of the prices given.
(6) In the event that prices differ depending on whether the entrepreneur or the customer provides materials, both prices shall be marked.
§ 12. (1) In travel catalogues and leaflets of foreign origin which are circulated in Austria it shall be sufficient to note, at a noticeable position in the catalogue or leaflet, the rate applied for converting into Austrian currency the prices given in the foreign currency, provided that the foreign price and the conversion rate are marked in the same font size.
(2) Any party who advertises shopping trips abroad to end users in Austria shall indicate that the import charges to be paid by the purchaser upon importing the goods into Austria, such as customs duties, countervailing duties and turnover tax on import, shall be added to the stated price. The amount of such charges shall be marked directly adjacent to the given price in the same font size and noticeability, and a sum total shall be given.
§ 13. (1) §§ 9 to 12 shall also apply to prices marked voluntarily in catalogues or leaflets, especially for advertising purposes. This shall also apply to advertising for services, without prejudice to § 22 para 1 subpara 9 of the Services (in the Internal Market) Act, Federal Law Gazette I no. 100/2011, as amended.
(2) § 9 and § 12 para 2 shall also apply to quotations and estimates.
Special regulations
§ 14. (1) The Federal Minister of Economics and Labour shall specify by an ordinance any manner of price marking which deviates from § 4 and § 6 to § 8 or any content which deviates from § 9 to § 13 in the event that:
	1.	such action is necessary in order to facilitate easy and reliable comparison of prices, as well as advisable in accordance with normal business practices, or
	2.	the price marking provided for in § 4 and § 6 to § 12 would constitute an excessive burden for the entrepreneur and easy and reliable comparison of prices will not be significantly affected.
Penal provisions
§ 15. (1) Any party who neglects his obligation to mark prices pursuant to § 1, § 2, § 4 and § 6 to § 13 or any of the ordinances issued under this Federal Act or who charges, accepts or obtains the promise of a higher price than the marked price shall be deemed to have committed an administrative offence and shall be punished by a fine of up to € 1,450. Similarly, any party who, with regard to self service, in the event of a change in price for a good after it is taken by the customer, charges, accepts or obtains the promise of a higher price than the one marked at the time it is taken, shall be deemed to have committed an administrative offence and shall be similarly punished.
(2) Where the appointment of a managing director was notified or approved pursuant to § 39 of the 1973 Industrial Code or under any other administrative regulations, such managing director shall be liable under the criminal law and shall be punished by a fine and imprisonment for failure to pay such fine.
(3) In addition to the managing director, the entrepreneur shall be liable to prosecution if he knowingly tolerates the administrative offence or if hehas failed to proceed with due care in appointing the managing director.
(4) Paras 2 and 3 above shall apply mutatis mutandis in the event of notification or approval of the appointment of an outlet manager with regard to the place of business for which such manager is responsible.
(5) The entrepreneur shall be jointly liable for any fines imposed on the managing director or outlet manager, for any other consequences of the offence assessed in money and for the costs of the proceedings.
§ 16. (1) It shall be incumbent upon the district administrative authorities to monitor observance of the price marking obligation and to prosecute administrative offences.
(2) To the extent that specially trained bodies are available at provincial level they may be used for monitoring prices in the respective province.
(3) The bodies responsible for monitoring observance of the price marking obligation may enter business premises during business hours in order to carry out investigations in their line of duty. In doing so, any disruption of or interference with business or operations that is not absolutely necessary shall be avoided. Entrepreneurs are required to support the bodies responsible for monitoring observance of the price marking obligation, to provide them with the information required to carry out their duties upon request and, if necessary, to hold ready documents demonstrating compliance with § 9a.
Effectiveness
§ 17. (1) This Federal Act shall become effective on the first day of the third month following its promulgation.
(2) Any ordinances based on this Federal Act may be issued as of the first day following its promulgation. Such ordinances may not be made effective prior to the date referred to in para 1.
(3) § 9 para 2 as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 125/1998 shall become effective on 1 January 1999 and shall become inoperative as of the end of 31 December 2001.
(4) § 9 para 2 as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette no. 146/1999 shall be reinstated as of 1 January 2002.
(5) § 1, the first sentence of § 10 para 1, § 10 para 2, § 10a to § 10c, § 14 and § 19 paras 3 and 4 as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 55/2000 shall become effective as of 1 September 2000.
(6) § 15 para 1 as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 55/2000 shall become effective as of 1 January 2002.
(7) Until 28 February 2002, § 10b para 3 subpara 3 as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 55/2000 shall be effective provided that the place of business has a sales space of not more than 400 square metres.
(8) Ordinances based on the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 55/2000 may be issued as of the first day following promulgation of this federal act, but may be made effective not earlier than 1 September 2000.
(9) § 9 para 5 and the second sentence of § 13 para 1 as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 100/2011 shall become effective as of the end of the day of promulgation of this federal act.
(10) § 7 as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 99/2016 shall become effective as of the end of one month following promulgation. The second and third sentences of § 7 shall also be applied to contracts entered into before this time. At the same time, § 8 shall become inoperative.
(11) § 9a, § 16, § 21 and § 22, as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 110/2022, shall become effective as of the day following their promulgation.
Amendment and repeal of existing regulations
§ 18. § 73 paras 2 and 3, § 202 and § 368 subpara 9 of the 1973 Industrial Code, Federal Law Gazette no. 50/1974, most recently amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette no. 686/1991, shall be repealed.
Transitional provisions
§ 19. (1) In the first six months after the entry into force of this Federal Act, the Federal Gendarmerie, or. in places where Federal Law Enforcement Authorities have been established, the local police stations of such authorities, as the bodies of the district administration authority, shall share in enforcing § 15 para 1 by measures required for prosecuting administrative offences.
(2) Any administrative offence committed prior to the entry into force of this Federal Act shall continue to be subject to the Price Act, Federal Law Gazette no. 260/1976, most recently amended by the 1988 Amendment to the Price Act, Federal Law Gazette no. 337.
(3) Any administrative offence committed prior to the entry into force of the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 55/2000 shall continue to be subject to the 1992 Price Marking Act, Federal Law Gazette no. 146/1992, most recently amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 191/1999, and the Ordinance of the Federal Minister of Economic Affairs Regarding the Exemption of Specified Goods from Price Marking Duty, Federal Law Gazette no. 614/1993.
(4) With regard to the duty of marking prices in two currencies within the meaning of the Euro Currency Marking Act, Federal Law Gazette I no. 110/1999 as amended, § 1 of the 1992 Price Marking Act in its original version, Federal Law Gazette no. 146/1992, shall continue to apply.
Enforcement
§ 20. This Federal Act shall be enforced by:-
	1.	the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister of Economic Affairs with regard to paras 1 and 2 of § 19, as determined by their respective spheres of responsibility,
	2.	the Federal Minister of Economic Affairs with regard to the other provisions.

Reference to Union law
§ 21. (1) By means of the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 55/2000, Directive 98/6/EC on consumer protection in the indication of the prices of products offered to consumers, OJ L 80, 18/03/1998, p. 27, is transposed into Austrian law.
(2) By means of the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I no. 110/2022, Directive 2019/2161/EU amending Directive 93/13/EEC and Directives 98/6/EC, 2005/29/EC and 2011/83/EU as regards the better enforcement and modernisation of Union consumer protection rules, OJ L 328, 18/12/2019, p. 7, is transposed into Austrian law.
Linguistic equality
§ 22. Insofar as this Federal Act includes references to persons in the masculine form only, such references shall be deemed to apply equally to all genders.
