Part I
General information
Objective and distribution of subsidies
§ 1. (1) The Federal Government supports the Austrian daily and weekly newspapers by means of financial subsidies in an effort to promote the diversity of the press in Austria.
(2) The funds available for press subsidies shall be distributed between sales promotion subsidies and special subsidies in accordance with the funds set aside for this purpose in the Federal Finance Act.
(3) The Austrian Communications Authority (KommAustria) established pursuant to the KommAustria Act, Art. I, Federal Law Gazette I No 32/2001, is responsible for allocating the subsidies to the applicants.
General eligibility requirements for subsidies
§ 2. (1) Subsidies shall be granted to publishers of daily or weekly newspapers at their request in accordance with this Federal Act and the funds set aside for this purpose in the Federal Finance Act, provided that the periodical print medium meets the following requirements:
	1.	daily and weekly newspapers must extend beyond the circle of pure specialist press in terms of content and predominantly serve the purpose of political, general economic and cultural information and opinion formation, and must neither be customer magazines nor organs of interest representation bodies. The editorial part of the daily and weekly newspapers must consist mainly of independently written contributions.
	2.	daily newspapers must be published a minimum of 240 times a year, weekly newspapers a minimum of 41 times a year, and most of the copies must be predominantly available for public sale or for subscription in Austria;
	3.	daily and weekly newspapers must have been published regularly for six months before the time when the application for the grant of subsidies is filed and must have met the eligibility requirements for subsidies during that time;
	4.	daily newspapers must have a verifiable paid circulation of at least 10,000 copies nationwide or 6,000 copies in a particular province per issue and must employ a minimum of six full-time journalists; the average sales price in a year must not be significantly lower than that of similar daily newspapers;
	5.	weekly newspapers must have a verifiable paid circulation of at least 5,000 copies per issue and must employ a minimum of two full-time journalists; the average sales price in a year must not be significantly lower than that of similar weekly newspapers;
	6.	publishers of daily or weekly newspapers must not be a territorial authority nor may territorial authorities be directly or indirectly involved or hold a direct or indirect interest in such publishers;
	7.	daily and weekly newspapers must not be merely of local interest and must be distributed and be of significance in at least one province.
(2) The requirements of para. 1 subparas. 4 and 5 shall not apply to print media published in a language of an ethnic group pursuant to Art. 8 para. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Law.

(3) Publishers wishing to be granted subsidies pursuant to Part II and Part III of this Federal Act shall disclose the print medium’s circulation figures to KommAustria.
(4) Publishers of daily newspapers shall, at the request of KommAustria, disclose the circulation figures pursuant to para. 3 broken down by provinces.
(5) All circulation figures must be confirmed by a relevant industry organisation that compiles these metrics for its members according to criteria customary in the industry. If the applicant for subsidies is not a member of such an industry organisation, the applicant shall provide a confirmation regarding the verification of the circulation figures by a professional accountant or tax adviser with whom the applicant has no other contractual relations. Furthermore, KommAustria may request further personal data and documents from the applicant if this is required to assess eligibility for subsidies or to calculate the amount of subsidies.
(6) Publishers of daily and weekly newspapers wishing to be granted subsidies pursuant to this Federal Act shall disclose their ownership and shareholding structures to KommAustria.
(7) Local editions, edition variants and other printed media that are published by the same publisher under the same name or under a name deviating only by a regional designation or that are predominantly authored by the same editorial staff shall not be subsidised independently but shall be attributed to the parent newspaper.
(8) Media owners shall be excluded from receiving subsidies if, in the year for which a subsidy is applied for or in the two preceding years, their media were used as a platform to
	1.	incite others to violently fight democracy or the rule of law, or
	2.	advocate violence against others as a means of politics, or
	3.	repeatedly incite others to generally disregard the law in relation to a certain field of law, or
	4.	repeatedly incite others to hatred or violence directed against a group of persons or a member of a group based on sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation.

(8a) Media owners shall not be excluded from receiving subsidies pursuant to para. 8 if the incitement or advocacy was expressed neither by a decision-maker nor by an employee of the applicant for subsidies and if none of the decision-makers or employees of the undertaking can otherwise be accused of not having applied proper journalistic care in respect of the incriminated content contributed by third parties.
(8b) If an offence punishable by a court pursuant to § 282a of the Criminal Code, Federal Law Gazette No 60/1974, or § 283 of the Criminal Code or pursuant to the provisions of the National Socialism Prohibition Act, State Law Gazette No 13/1945, is committed in the medium of a media owner, eligibility for subsidies of the medium concerned shall be forfeited in the calendar year following the date of the final conviction, provided that a final conviction was handed down for this offence. This shall not apply if the final conviction in relation to the content of the medium was handed down against a person who is neither a decision-maker nor an employee of the media owner and if none of the decision-makers or employees of the undertaking can be accused of not having applied proper journalistic care in respect of the incriminated content.
(9) If eligibility for subsidies is forfeited, any funds that have already been paid shall be reclaimed immediately or offset against subsidies to be paid.
Application for subsidies
§ 3. (1) Applications for the grant of subsidies shall be filed with KommAustria within the first three months of a calendar year using a supplied online form. The application shall demonstrate that the eligibility requirements for subsidies have been met. The certifications required by law shall be enclosed with the request. The certifications shall be provided for the year preceding the application for subsidies (observation period).
(2) RTR-GmbH under the responsibility of the managing director of the Broadcasting Division is responsible for providing administrative support to KommAustria in matters of this Federal Act.
Press Subsidies Commission
§ 4. (1) The Press Subsidies Commission is set up to advise KommAustria on matters relating to this Federal Act.
(2) Before granting subsidies, KommAustria shall obtain expert opinions from the Press Subsidies Commission on whether the eligibility requirements for subsidies have been met. The Press Subsidies Commission shall issue such expert opinions within six weeks of being requested to do so. Upon request, the expert opinions shall also state the position of those members whose views were in the minority. The results of the expert opinions shall be submitted to KommAustria.
(3) The Press Subsidies Commission consists of six members and one chair.
	1.	These six members shall be appointed as follows:
Two members each shall be appointed
	a)	by the Federal Chancellor,
	b)	by the Austrian Newspaper Association, and
	c)	by the trade union responsible for journalists employed with daily and weekly newspapers,
for a term of two years. Re-appointment is possible. If a member leaves the Press Subsidies Commission before the expiry of their term, a new member shall be appointed immediately for the remaining term of office. The constitutive meeting shall be convened by KommAustria.
	2.	These six members shall agree on a chair from outside their ranks within two weeks of the constitutive meeting, failing which such person shall be designated by the Council of Presidents of the Austrian Bar within another two weeks. Until the chair has been elected or designated, the Press Subsidies Commission shall be chaired by one of the members appointed by the Federal Chancellor. The term of office of the chair is two years. If the chair leaves the Press Subsidies Commission before the expiry of their term, a successor shall be elected for the remaining term of office. Re-election is possible.
	3.	The chair and the other members of the Press Subsidies Commission must not be in an employment or shareholder relationship with a daily or weekly newspaper or any other applicant for press subsidies.
	4.	The Press Subsidies Commission is quorate if at least half of its members and the chair are present. Unless otherwise provided for in this Federal Act, the Press Subsidies Commission passes its resolutions by a simple majority of the votes cast. The chair has a vote.
(Note: subpara. 4a became ineffective as of the end of 31 December 2022)
	5.	The Press Subsidies Commission shall adopt rules of procedure for itself by a majority of at least two thirds of the votes cast.
	6.	The Press Subsidies Commission may invite informants to attend its deliberations.
(4) The Press Subsidies Commission is responsible for
	1.	providing expert opinions to KommAustria pursuant to § 4 para. 2,
	2.	defining the criteria for the verification of circulation figures pursuant to § 2 para. 3,
	3.	passing resolutions on recommendations for subsidy guidelines with a two-thirds majority.
(5) Publishers of daily or weekly newspapers that do not clearly meet the criterion of § 2 para. 1 subpara. 1 or of § 2 para. 1 subpara. 7 can be granted lower subsidies upon a unanimous recommendation by the Press Subsidies Commission.
(6) After having heard the Press Subsidies Commission, KommAustria shall publish subsidy guidelines in an appropriate manner every year at the beginning of the observation period relevant for subsidies.
(7) KommAustria shall publish all subsidy results in an appropriate manner no later than two weeks after payment.
Part II
Sales promotion subsidies
General provisions
§ 5. (1) The provisions of this Part provide for subsidies for daily and weekly newspapers.
(2) The funds made available for the purpose of sales promotion pursuant to this Part shall be distributed between daily newspapers and weekly newspapers in a ratio of 54 to 46.
Sales promotion of daily newspapers
§ 6. (1) Daily newspapers are granted subsidies if they meet the requirements of Part I.
(2) The subsidies shall be distributed in such a way that the funds set aside in the “sales promotion of daily newspapers” subsidy pool are distributed evenly among all daily newspapers eligible for subsidies. If a publisher publishes several daily newspapers, each of which is eligible for sales promotion subsidies in its own right, the subsidies for the daily newspaper with the second-largest number of copies distributed by subscription shall be reduced by 20%, with the third-largest by 40%, with the fourth-largest by 60%, and with the fifth-largest by 80%. If additional daily newspapers are published by the same publisher, these shall no longer be eligible for subsidies. These reductions also apply to different daily newspapers by the same media group (§ 2 subpara. 7 of the Private Radio Broadcasting Act, Federal Law Gazette I No 20/2001).

Sales promotion of weekly newspapers
§ 7. (1) Weekly newspapers are granted subsidies for the first 15,000 copies distributed by subscription (including bulk and member subscriptions), provided that they meet the requirements of Part I.
(2) If a publisher publishes several weekly newspapers, each of which is eligible for sales promotion subsidies in its own right, the second-largest amount of the subsidies calculated pursuant to para. 3 shall be reduced by 20%, the third-largest by 40%, the fourth-largest by 60%, and the fifth-largest by 80%. If additional weekly newspapers are published by the same publisher, these shall no longer be eligible for subsidies. These reductions also apply to different weekly newspapers by the same media group (§ 2 subpara. 7 of the Private Radio Broadcasting Act, Federal Law Gazette I No 20/2001).

(3) The amount of sales promotion subsidies for weekly newspapers is calculated by multiplying the number of subscription copies by the factor A. The factor A, which has the value 0.015 for the first full 1,000 copies, decreases linearly by the value 0.001 for every thousand copies. The resulting product must be multiplied by the number of annual issues. The resulting values shall be converted using a distribution key in such a way that the funds set aside in the “sales promotion of weekly newspapers” subsidy pool can be fully used. Only full packages of thousands shall be subsidised.
Part III
Special subsidies to preserve the regional diversity of daily newspapers
Requirements and calculation
§ 8. (1) The Federal Government contributes to preserving the diversity of daily newspapers in the provinces by means of special subsidies. These special subsidies consist of financial support granted by the Federal Government to daily newspapers, including local editions, that are of special significance for political opinion and policy formation but do not have a market-leading position pursuant to para. 4.
(2) Subsidies pursuant to this Part are granted to daily newspapers whose average paid circulation per issue does not exceed 100,000 copies in a year across the entire federal territory, whose annual number of pages consists of no more than 50% advertisements and which employ at least 12 full-time journalists.
(3) The market-leading daily newspaper at the national level in terms of the number of copies sold is not eligible for special subsidies. Furthermore, the market-leading daily newspapers at the regional level are also not eligible. Should the market-leading daily newspaper at the national level also hold the leading position in a regional market, the daily newspaper with the second-largest number of copies sold in the relevant province is considered a regional market leader and is also not eligible for special subsidies.
(4) The national market leader as referred to in para. 3 is the daily newspaper with the largest number of copies sold among the daily newspapers in the federal territory. The regional market leader as referred to in para. 3 is the daily newspaper with the largest number of copies sold among the daily newspapers in their relevant main regional area of circulation. The main regional area of circulation of a daily newspaper is the province in which it sells the largest number of copies. Market leadership in accordance with this provision shall be determined on the basis of total paid circulation.
(5) The funds for special subsidies shall be distributed as follows:
	1.	Every newspaper eligible for subsidies shall receive a basic amount of EUR 500,000.
	2.	The remaining subsidies shall be distributed by multiplying the number of copies sold in the main regional area of circulation, up to a maximum of 25,000 copies, by the number of issues published in a year. The result of this calculation shall be converted using a distribution key in such a way that the funds can be fully used.
Part IV
Final provisions
Observation period and payment
§ 9. (1) The subsidies provided for in this Federal Act are granted for the calendar year for which the applicant for subsidies has furnished the documents and evidence necessary for being granted subsidies.
(2) All subsidies shall be paid in two equal instalments. The second instalment shall be paid no later than in November of the relevant year. In the event that a daily or weekly newspaper is no longer published at the time when an instalment ought to be paid, no payment shall be made. The amount withheld cannot be used for any other subsidies pursuant to this Federal Act. This provision shall also apply mutatis mutandis to all other applicants for subsidies.
References
§ 10. (1) Any terms referring to persons used in this Federal Act shall apply to both genders alike.
(2) If reference is made in this Federal Act to provisions of other federal acts and not explicitly to a specific version, these provisions shall be applied in their applicable versions.
Implementation
§ 11. The Federal Chancellor is entrusted with implementing this Federal Act.
Transitional provisions and entry into force
§ 12. (1) The subsidy guidelines pursuant to § 4 para. 6 for the observation period of the year 2003 shall be published by not later than 15 March 2004.
(2) Applications for the grant of subsidies pursuant to § 9 para. 1 subpara. 3 letters a and b in the year 2004 shall be filed by 1 June.
(3) Contrary to § 2 para. 1 subpara. 5, a weekly newspaper is deemed to meet the general eligibility requirements for subsidies for the observation period of the year 2003 even if only one full-time journalist was employed during that period.
(4) This Federal Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2004. The organisational and staffing measures necessary for appointing the members of the Press Subsidies Commission can already be taken before this Federal Act enters into force. Upon the entry into force of this Federal Act, the Press Subsidies Act 1985, Federal Law Gazette No 228/1985, as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No 194/1999 shall become ineffective.
(5) § 12a and § 16 as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I No 52/2009 shall enter into force on 1 January 2009. Contrary to § 12a para. 1, the amount payable for the year 2009 shall be transferred as per 30 June 2009. 
(6) § 3 and § 12a as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I No 42/2010 shall enter into force on 1 January 2010.
(7) § 2 paras. 8 and 9 as well as § 8 para. 2 as amended by the Budget Accompanying Act 2014, Federal Law Gazette I No 40/2014, shall enter into force on 1 May 2014. At the same time, § 13 along with its heading shall become ineffective.
(8) § 2 para. 5 third sentence as amended by the Substantive Law (Data Protection) Amendment Act 2018, Federal Law Gazette I No 32/2018, shall enter into force on 25 May 2018.
(8a) The funds to be provided by the Federal Government for the purpose of sales promotion of daily newspapers (§ 6) for applications (§ 3 and § 14) relating to the year 2019 amount to a total of EUR 5,244,750, and the funds to be provided for the purpose of sales promotion of weekly newspapers (§ 7) for applications relating to the year 2019 amount to a total of EUR 4,467,750.
(9) § 4 para. 3 subpara. 4a and Part IVa as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I No 24/2020 shall enter into force at the end of the day of promulgation of the aforementioned federal act and shall become ineffective as of the end of 31 December 2020.
(10) § 12c as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I No 82/2020 shall enter into force at the end of the day of promulgation of the aforementioned federal act and shall become ineffective as of the end of 31 December 2020.
(11) § 4 para. 3 subpara. 4a as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I No 10/2021 shall enter into force at the end of the day of promulgation of the aforementioned federal act and shall become ineffective as of the end of 31 December 2022.
(12) § 1 para. 2, § 2 paras. 8 to 8b, § 3 para. 1, § 4 para. 4 as well as the amendment to the designation of Part V, the amendment to the designations of § 14 to § 17 and the amendment to the text of the previous § 16 to § 17 as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I No 163/2023 shall enter into force on 1 January 2024. At the same time, Part IV as amended by the federal act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I No 84/2022 shall become ineffective.
