Liability
§ 1. (1) If due to the defect of a product a person is killed, suffers an injury to his1 body or health, or if any tangible property other than the product is damaged, the following entities shall be liable to compensate the damage:
	1.	the entrepreneur by whom it was produced and put into circulation,
	2.	the entrepreneur by whom it was imported into and put into circulation in the European Economic Area (importer).
(2) Where the producer or – in the event of imported products – the importer (para 1 sub-para 2 above) cannot be identified, any entrepreneur who has put the product into circulation shall be liable under para 1 above, unless he supplies the injured party within a reasonable period with the name of the producer or – in the case of imported products – of the importer or the party who has supplied the product.
1Translator's comment: For the purposes of simplification, “he” is used throughout the text rather than he/she/it, as the case may be.
§ 2. The damage caused by the injury to an object shall be compensated only if:
	1.	it was not suffered by an entrepreneur who has used the object predominantly in his enterprise, and
	2.	besides, only with the part exceeding € 500.
Producer
§ 3. The term “producer” § 1 para 1 sub-para 1 shall mean the person who has manufactured the finished product, a raw material or component part, as well as anybody who presents himself as producer by affixing to the product his name, trade mark or other distinguishing feature.
Product
§ 4. The term “product” shall mean any movable tangible property even if it is part of another movable property or combined with an immovable property, including energy.
Defect
§ 5. (1) A product shall be deemed defective if it does not provide the safety which, taking all circumstances into account, may be reasonably expected, in particular with respect to:
	1.	the presentation of the product,
	2.	the use to which it can reasonably be expected that the product would be put,
	3.	the time when the product was put into circulation.
(2) A product shall not be considered defective for the sole reason that an improved product was subsequently put into circulation.
Putting into Circulation
§ 6. A product shall be deemed put into circulation as soon as the entrepreneur – irrespective of the title – has transferred it to another person into the latter’s power of disposition or for the latter’s use. Dispatching the product to the customer shall be deemed sufficient.
Reversal of the Burden of Proof
§ 7. (1) If a producer or importer claims not to have put the object into circulation or not to have acted as an entrepreneur, the burden of proof shall rest with him.
(2) If a person against whom an action is brought claims that the defect which caused the damage did not exist at the time of its being put into circulation, he shall show that, having regard to the circumstances, his claim is plausible.
Exclusion of Liability
§ 8. Liability shall not be excluded through lack of guilt but only by proving that:–
	1.	the defect can be attributed to a legal provision or official instruction with which the product had to comply,
	2.	according to the state of technology at the time when the product was put into circulation by the person against whom an action is brought, its properties could not be recognised as a defect, or
	3.	if the person against whom an action is brought has produced merely a raw material or a component part – the defect was caused by the design of the product in which the raw material or component part was fitted, or by the instructions given by the producer of the product.
§ 9. Liability for damages under this Federal Act may be neither excluded nor limited beforehand.
Joint and Several Liability
§ 10. If liability affects several parties, they shall be jointly and severally liable. Their liability shall not be diminished if, subject to other provisions, other parties are also liable for compensation of the same damage.
Contributory Negligence of the Injured Person
§ 11. If the injured person or a party for whose conduct he is responsible is at fault, § 1304 of the Austrian Civil Code (ABGB) shall be applied mutatis mutandis.
Recourse
§ 12. (1) If a person liable for compensation has paid damages and the defect of the product was caused neither by him nor by one of his agents, he shall be entitled to claim reimbursement from the producer of the defective finished product, raw material or component part. If several parties are liable for reimbursement, they shall be jointly and severally liable.
(2) If several liable parties have contributed to the defect, the extent of the claim for reimbursement of the party that has compensated the damage against the other parties shall depend on the circumstances, in particular on the extent to which one or the other party is responsible for the damage or to which the damage was caused by bringing about a product defect.
(3) Where a person liable for reimbursement under paras 1 or 2 above cannot be identified, any entrepreneur who put the product into circulation prior to the party entitled to claim reimbursement shall be liable for reimbursement, unless he indicates within a reasonable period the producer or the party having supplied the product.
Lapse
§ 13. If claims for damages under this Federal Act do not become statute-barred at an earlier date, they shall lapse after ten years from the time when the party liable for compensation has put the product into circulation, unless the injured person has in the meantime brought an action for compensation.
Application of the Civil Code
§ 14. Unless otherwise stipulated in this Federal Act, the Civil Code shall be applied to the claims for damages specified hereunder.
Other Claims for Damages
§ 15. (1) Provisions of the Civil Code and other regulations under which damage must be compensated to a larger extent or by other persons than those specified under this Federal Act shall remain unaffected.
(2) This Federal Act shall not apply to damage caused by a nuclear event covered by an international convention ratified by EFTA states and EC Member States.
Provision for Coverage
§ 16. Producers and importers of products shall be obligated, in a manner and to an extent customary in fair business dealings, to provide for the satisfaction of liabilities for damages under this Federal Act by taking out insurance or in another suitable manner.
Extra Charges
§ 17. Moreover, the term “importer” within the meaning of § 1 para 1 sub-para 2 shall mean the entrepreneur who imported the product for distribution from an EFTA state into the European Economic Community or from the European Economic Community into an EFTA state, or from an EFTA state into another EFTA state and put it into circulation. From the date when the Lugano Convention of 16 September 1988 on jurisdiction and the enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters enters into force for an EC Member State or an EFTA state, this shall cease to be valid for states that have ratified the Convention, insofar as on the basis of these ratifications a national judgment, obtained to the benefit of the injured person, is enforceable against the producer or importer as defined by § 1 para 1 sub-para 2.
Transitional Provision, Enforcement
§ 18. This Federal Act shall enter into force as of 1st July 1988.
§ 19. This Federal Act shall not be applied to any loss or damage caused by products that were put into circulation prior to its entry into force.
§ 19a. (1) § 1 para 1 sub-para 2, § 2, § 9, § 13, § 15 para 2 and § 17 as amended by the Federal Act of Federal Law Gazette No. 95/1993 shall enter into force at the same time as the Agreement on the European Economic Area.
(2) The revised version of these provisions shall not be applied to any loss or damage by products that were put into circulation prior to the time set forth in Para 1 above.
(3) §§ 4 and 8 as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 185/1999 shall enter into force as of 1st January 2000. The revised version of these provisions shall not be applied to products that were put into circulation prior to 1st January 2000.
(3) (sic) §§ 2 and 19a as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 98/2001 shall enter into force as of 1st January 2002. In this version, § 2 shall not be applied to any loss or damage caused by products that were put into circulation prior to this date.
§ 20. The Federal Minister of Justice shall be charged with enforcement of this Federal Act.
