General Provisions
Scope of Application
§ 1. (1) The present federal law governs the cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Republic of Austria and those of the other Member States of the European Union in criminal proceedings against natural persons and associations (§ 1 (2) and (3) of the Responsibilities of Associations Act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette I No. 151/2005). This cooperation comprises
	1.	the recognition and execution of judicial decisions, especially by 
	a)	the surrender of persons;
	b)	the freezing of evidence and property;
	c)	the execution of orders relating to property rights, 
	d)	the execution of pecuniary sanctions;
	e)	the supervision of decisions imposing probation measures or alternative sanctions;
	f)	the monitoring of decisions on supervision measures;
	g)	the recognition of European protection orders and adoption of national measures, and
	h)	the recognition and execution of a European Investigation Order.
	2.	judicial assistance in criminal matters, including the formation of joint investigation teams, cooperation with Eurojust and the European Judicial Network (EJN), as well as the service of documents;
	3.	the transfer of criminal prosecution and the transfer of the enforcement of sentences.
(2) Unless the provisions of the present federal law stipulate otherwise, the Extradition and Judicial Assistance Act promulgated in Federal Law Gazette No. 529/1979, shall apply in analogy.
Definitions
§ 2. (1) For the purposes of the present federal law the following terms shall have the following meaning:
	1.	“European arrest warrant” is a decision by a judicial authority issued by a Member State with a view to the arrest and surrender of a person by the judicial authority of another Member State for the purposes of conducting criminal prosecution or enforcing a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty;
	2.	“Freezing order” is every measure taken by a competent judicial authority of a Member State in criminal proceedings in order to prevent for the time being any destruction, modification, removal, assignment or sale of property, which could serve to secure a pecuniary order or could constitute evidence;
	3.	“Issuing State” the State,
	a)	the judicial authority of which has issued the European arrest warrant or the authority of which has issued the European Investigation Order;
	b)	in which the judgment imposing a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty was delivered; or
	c)	in which a decision imposing probation measures or alternative sanctions was taken;
	3a.	„Issuing State“ is the State in which a decision on supervision measures was taken or the State in which a protection measure was adopted on the basis of which a European protection order has been issued;
	4.	“Issuing judicial authority” is the judicial authority
	a.	of the issuing State which is competent to issue a European arrest warrant by virtue of the law of that State, or
	b.	of the deciding State which issued a freezing order, stated that such an order was final and enforceable, or confirmed it in some other way;
	4a.	„Issuing authority“ is the authority of the issuing State which is compentent to issue a European Investigation Order or to transmit an information by virtue of the law of that State;
	5.	“Executing judicial authority” is the judicial authority of the executing State which is competent to execute the European arrest warrant by virtue of the law of that State;
	5a.	“Executing authority“ is the authority of the executing State which is compenten for the decision on the execution of a European Investigation Order or for the receipt of an information by virtue of the law of that State;
	6.	“Deciding State” is the State 
	a.	the judicial authority of which issued a freezing order, stated that such order is final and enforceable, or confirmed it in some other way;
	b.	the court or other judicial authority of which took a decision imposing a pecuniary sanction, or
	c.	the court of which issued an order relating to property rights;
	7.	“Executing State” is the State
	a.	the judicial authority of which decides on the execution of a European arrest warrant or the authority of which decides on the execution of a European Investigation Order, 
	b.	on the national territory of which the property or evidence is located,
	c.	on the national territory of which the person, who is subject to the pecuniary sanction, has his/her domicile or residence, makes dispositions concerning his/her property or receives his/her income; in the case of an association (§ 1 (2) and (3) of the Responsibilities of Associations Act on the national territory of which it has its registered office, makes dispositions concerning its property or receives its revenues; 
	d.	on the national territory of which the assets or objects are located that are covered by the order relating to property rights or where the person, who is the subject of the pecuniary sanction, has his/her domicile or residence, makes dispositions concerning his/her property or receives his/her income; in the case of an association (§ 1 (2) and (3) of the Responsibilities of Associations Act on the national territory of which the assets or objects are located that are covered by the order relating to property rights, the association has its registered office, makes dispositions concerning its property or receives its revenues;
	e.	to which a judgment imposing a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty has been forwarded for the purpose of enforcement;
	f.	in which decisions imposing probation measures or alternative sanctions have been taken, are being supervised and subsequent decisions are being taken;
	g.	in which decisions on supervision measures are monitored;
	h.	to which a European protection order has been transmitted for the purpose of recognition and adoption of national measures,
	8.	“Member State” is a member of the European Union;
	9.	“Third country” is a State that is not a member of the European Union;
	10.	“Eurojust” is the body that has been set up by Article 1 of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 referring to the European Union Agency for Cirminal Justice Cooperation (Eurojust), and replacing and repealing Council Decision 2002/187/JHA, Official Journal No. L 295 of 21 November 2018, page 138;
	11.	“Pecuniary Order” confiscation (§ 19a of the Criminal Code – StGB, Federal Law Gazette No. 60/1974), forfeiture (§§20, 20b StGB), collection (§ 26 StGB) and any other sanction, preventive measure or legal consequence consisting of the deprivation of assets or objects which is ordered after conducting criminal proceedings in Austria or another State, with the exception of fines, monetary payments, compensation payments to victims and costs of proceedings;
	12.	“European protection order” an order issued by a judicial authority or any other competent authority of a Member State in connection with a protective measure (item 13), on the basis of which the competent authority of another Member State according to national law adopts measures to continue the protection of the protected person in this Member State;
	13.	“Protection Measure” a decision of the issuing State in criminal proceedings with which a natural person (“person causing danger”) is given one or more orders with the aim of protecting another person (“protected person”) from a criminal act against his/her physical or mental integrity, dignity, personal freedom or sexual integrity.
	14.	„European Investigation Order“ is a decision by the issuing authority (item 4a) aimed at the execution of an investigation measure or the obtaining of evidence in another Member State, the transmission of investigation results or of means of evidence or the transfer of imprisoned persons;
	15.	„Judicial Assistance“ is any support not comprised by § 1 para. 1 which is granted for foreign proceedings in criminal matters. It comprises also the admission of activities in the framework of crossborder observations on the basis of bilateral agreements, of joint investigation teams and of undercover investigations.
(2) Within the scope of application of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 on Mutual Recognition of Freezing Orders and Confiscation Orders, Official Journal No. L 303 dated 28 November 2018, p. 1, the definitions follow article 2 of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1805.
Chapter II
European Arrest Warrant and Surrender Procedures between Member States
Part One
General Prerequisites
Basic Principles
§ 3. (1) The surrender of persons between Member States is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters by arresting and surrendering the sought person in keeping with the provisions of the present Chapter by the executing judicial authority.
(2) Agreements under international law which are directly applicable under the scope of the present Chapter shall be applied only to the extent that the present federal law does not stipulate otherwise.
(3) Provisions on extradition in other federal laws also relate to the surrender between Member States governed by the present federal law.
(4) The obligations of the Republic of Austria under the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, Federal Law Gazette III No. 180/2002 as well as the provisions of the Federal Laws on cooperation with the international courts, Federal Law Gazette No. 263/1996 and on Cooperation with the International Criminal Court, Federal Law Gazette III No. 135/2002 remain unchanged.
Scope of Application of the European Arrest Warrant
§ 4. (1) A European arrest warrant may be issued and executed in order to conduct criminal prosecution for an act, the commission of which is punishable by virtue of the law of the issuing State by a custodial sentence for a maximum period of at least one year, or by a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty for such a term, if it also constitutes an act carrying a court sentence pursuant to the law of the executing State, irrespective of its statutory designation. It is irrelevant whether an application has been filed or an authorization has been granted in this context, as is required for conducting criminal prosecution under Austrian law.
(2) A European arrest warrant may be issued or executed in order to enforce a custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty if a term of four months still remains to be served and if the underlying act, irrespective of its statutory name, also constitutes an act carrying a court punishment according to the law of the executing State. Several custodial sentences or their remaining terms requiring enforcement shall be added up.
(3) For decisions pursuant to para.1 or para. 2, double criminality need not be verified, if the issuing judicial authority classified the punishable act underlying the European arrest warrant as one of the criminal offences listed in Annex 1, Part A, which carries a custodial sentence pursuant to the law of the issuing State for a maximum period of least three years, or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty for such a term.
(4) Word-by-word agreement of the legal concepts of the issuing State with the legal concepts of the executing State shall not be required for assigning an act to one of the categories of criminal offences pursuant to Annex 1, Part A.
(5) If the execution of a European arrest warrant is admissible in keeping with para. 1 or para. 2, the surrender on the basis of the European arrest warrant in question is also made for conducting a criminal prosecution for other punishable acts or for enforcing other custodial sentences or preventive measures involving deprivation of liberty if the enforcement was otherwise inadmissible, on account of the level of punishment (para. 1) or the duration of the sentence or measure (para. 2).
Part Two
Execution of a European Arrest Warrant
Execution of a European Arrest Warrant against Austrian nationals
§ 5. (Constitutional Provision) (1) Execution of a European arrest warrant against an Austrian national by an Austrian judicial authority is only admissible on the conditions of the following provisions.
(2) The execution of a European arrest warrant against an Austrian national for acts that are subject to the jurisdiction of Austrian criminal laws is inadmissible.
(3) The execution of a European arrest warrant against an Austrian national is inadmissible if
	1.	the person concerned did not commit any acts on the national territory of the issuing State, and
	2.	acts of the same type, committed outside the national territory in keeping with Austrian law, would not be subject to the scope of application of Austrian criminal law.
(4) The execution of a European arrest warrant against an Austrian national for the enforcement of a custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty is inadmissible. If an Austrian judicial authority is requested to execute such an arrest warrant, the sentence or measure imposed by the issuing State shall be enforced in Austria according to § 41j item 1, also without separate application by the issuing judicial authority, if the execution of this European arrest warrant would otherwise be admissible.
(5) The execution of a European arrest warrant by the surrender of an Austrian national for conducting a criminal prosecution is always admissible only on the condition that the person concerned by the surrender is returned to Austria, after having been granted to be heard in court, for serving the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed by the court in the issuing State.
(6) If the Austrian national concerned is kept in pre-trial detention or detention pending surrender, he/she may renounce a ground for refusal and conditions pursuant to the present federal law only expressly and at the earliest at the hearing on his/her detention, as defined by § 20 para. 1 (§ 32 para. 1 of the ARHG, § 175 para. 2 item 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1975 - StPO, Federal Law Gazette No. 631/1975). In any event, such a renunciation shall become effective only if it is put on record in court.
Execution of a European Arrest Warrant Against Citizens of the European Union
§ 5a. § 5 para. 4 to 6 also apply analogously to Citizens of the European Union against whom a European Arrest Warrant has been issued, if
	1.	the citizen of the European Union has his/her domicile or permanent residence in Austria,
	2.	it can be assumed that the execution of a custodial sentence in Austria serves resocialisation and reintegration of the convicted person into society and
	3.	he or she has not forfeit his or her right to residence by a behaviour that constitutes an actual, present and considerable danger for public order or security.
Place of Offence in Austria
§ 6. The execution of a European arrest warrant by an Austrian judicial authority is inadmissible if the warrant relates to acts that were committed in Austria (§ 62 StGB) or on board of an Austrian vessel or aircraft (§ 63 StGB) (§ 67 para. 2 StGB). The foregoing shall also apply if acts are not punishable by court pursuant to Austrian law.
Austrian Jurisdiction
§ 7. (1) The execution of a European arrest warrant is inadmissible in any event if a final and enforceable decision has been pronounced against the requested person in Austria for the very same act, which may only be lifted when the prerequisites for a proper re-opening of the case apply and which prevents the conducting of any further prosecution in the issuing State.
(2) Moreover, execution of a European arrest warrant is inadmissible for acts that are subject to the scope of application of Austrian criminal laws if
	1.	criminal proceedings are pending against the requested person for the same act or are initiated by the time of the court decision on the execution of the European arrest warrant, or
	2.	the public prosecutor decided to withdraw a report to the police or to discontinue proceedings for the same act, or to release the sought person from prosecution in some other way.
(3) § 6 and para. 2 do not prevent the execution of a European arrest warrant against a person who is not an Austrian national if
	1.	preference is to be given to conducting the criminal proceedings in the issuing State, taking account of the special circumstances of the case, especially for reasons of ascertaining the truth and a fair trial, the protection of the justified interests of the persons injured by the act, the determination of the sentence or its enforcement, or
	2.	the proceedings were ended for lack of evidence, or in the absence of an application, or in the absence of an authorization of the injured person, or
	3.	the application of Austrian criminal law is solely based on § 65 StGB.
Decisions by Third Countries or International Courts
§ 8. The execution of a European arrest warrant is inadmissible if, in connection with the same act, the requested person 
	1.	has been acquitted or convicted with final and enforceable effect by a court of a Member State and the sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty has already been enforced, is currently being enforced, or the non-enforced portion of the sentence or measure was suspended on probation, or can no longer be enforced pursuant to the law of the sentencing state,
	2.	is no longer prosecuted by the public prosecutor of a Member State on the national territory on which the act was committed, at least in part, by means of a final decision having the effects pursuant to § 7 para. 1,
	3.	was convicted by a court of a third country, and the sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty has already been enforced, is currently being enforced, or the non-enforced portion of the sentence or measure was suspended on probation, or can no longer be enforced pursuant to the law of the sentencing state,
	4.	was acquitted with final and enforceable effect in the state in which the place of offence is located, or
	5.	was convicted or acquitted with final and enforceable effect by the International Criminal Court, the International Court for the Former Yugoslavia or the International Court for Rwanda.
Persons without Criminal Responsibility
§ 9. (1) The execution of a European arrest warrant against persons, who had no criminal responsibility at the time of the act under Austrian law, is inadmissible.
(2) The issuing judicial authority shall be informed, without delay, about circumstances which justify a presumption that, under the law of the issuing State, the sought person is not punishable for the act underlying the European arrest warrant, on account of his/her age.
Limitation and Amnesty
§ 10. The execution of a European arrest warrant by an Austrian judicial authority is inadmissible if the acts, on the basis of which the European arrest warrant was issued, are subject to the scope of application of Austrian criminal law, and conducting a criminal prosecution or enforcing a court decision has become inadmissible under Austrian law, on account of the limitation period or an amnesty granted in Austria.
Court Decisions in Absentia
§ 11. (1) Surrender on the basis of a European arrest warrant for enforcement of a custodial sentence imposed in absentia or for the enforcement of a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed in absentia shall only be admitted if it emanates from the certificate states that the person concerned, in accordance with the rules of procedure of the issuing State
	1.	was in fact informed in due time by personal summons or in any other way of the time and place of the trial leading to the decision and was also informed that a decision can be taken in absentia,
	2.	aware of the time and place of the trial entrusted a selected lawyer or a lawyer appointed by the court with his or her representation in the trial and was in fact represented by this lawyer during the trial,
	3.	after having been served the decision taken in absentia and having been instructed about the right to request a review of the judgment or to appeal against the decision and thus achieve a second evaluation of the facts also taking into account new evidence in his or her presence, and a suspension of the decision, and having been informed about the time limits for this,
	a)	explicitly declares not to request a review of the judgment or to appeal against the decision, or
	b)	within the existing time limits does not request a review of the judgment or appeal against the decision, or
	4.	has not been personally served the judgment but has personally been served the judgment immediately after his or her surrender and on this occasion has explicitly been instructed about his or her right to request a review of the judgment or to appeal against the decision and thus achieve a new evaluation of the facts also taking into consideration new evidence in his or her presence and a suspension of the decision, and about the time limits for this.
(2) If the person concerned in case of para. 1 item 4 has not officially been notified that criminal proceedings are pending against him or her in the issuing State, he or she can request the delivery of a copy of the judgment at his or her interrogation to the European arrest warrant prior to his or her surrender, which shall be produced via the issuing authority. Such a request does neither affect the time limits set out in §§ 21 and 24 and nor those for a request for retrial or appealing against a decision. If the judgment is in a language the person concerned does not understand, the issuing authority shall be requested to forward a translation at least of the verdict and the information on the legal rights.
Punishable Acts under Fiscal Law
§ 12. In fiscal, customs and currency matters the execution of a European arrest warrant by an Austrian judicial authority must not be refused on the ground that Austrian law does not require the collection of similar taxes or does not contain any fiscal, customs or currency provisions which are equivalent to those under the law of the issuing State.
Part Three
Procedure for Approval of Surrender
Competences 
§ 13. § 26 of the ARHG governs the competences of an Austrian judicial authority for the procedure and decision on the execution of a European arrest warrant and on imposing detention pending surrender, as well as for offering the surrender.
Exchanges between Authorities
§ 14. (1) As a matter of principle, the exchanges between authorities in connection with the execution of a European arrest warrant take place directly between the issuing and the executing judicial authority.
(2) If the executing judicial authority or the issuing judicial authority indicated a central authority for the European arrest warrant, the exchanges shall take place through that authority. The Federal Minister of Justice shall publish a list of the central transmission authorities by way of ordinance.
(3) A European arrest warrant and other documents pursuant to the present federal law shall be forwarded by mail, by facsimile transmission, electronic data transmission, or any other safe technical means that facilitates the production of a written version under conditions that make it possible for the recipient to verify their authenticity.
(4) Inquiries may be conducted with the help of Euro-just or the points of contact of the European Judicial Network in order to identify the competent executing judicial authority.
(5) The transmission of a European arrest warrant and other documents may also take place through the good services of the Federal Ministry of Justice, if there are difficulties in forwarding or verifying the authenticity of the documents which cannot be remedied by way of a direct exchange between the authorities, as specified in para. 1.
(6) Whenever an Austrian judicial authority, which is served a European arrest warrant, has no competencies for its execution, it will forward the warrant to the competent court and inform the issuing judicial authority of this step.
Priority of Surrender
§ 15. If a European arrest warrant by another Member State has been served, or if there is another adequate reason to offer surrender to another Member State, it is inadmissible to remove the person concerned from the country on the basis of another statutory provision.
Launching a Surrender Procedure
§ 16. (1) The public prosecutor shall launch a surrender procedure, if a request for surrender by a Member State is received, or if it can be presumed, on the basis of specific facts that a person is staying in Austria, for whom a European arrest warrant has been issued, or that an alert for his/her apprehension has been issued under the Schengen Information System. The issuing judicial authority shall be requested to submit a European arrest warrant if the sought person is staying in Austria. 
(2) In all other cases, the Federal Ministry of the Interior shall verify whether requests by other Member States for the surrender of a person, which were received by way of an automation-supported search system, by way of the International Criminal Police Organisation (INTERPOL), or by some other way of official criminal-police assistance, give rise to trigger an alert in the search instruments for his/her exploration, for the purpose of apprehending that person and committing him/her to the prison of the competent court. 
Instruction on Legal Rights
§ 16a. (1) A person who has been arrested on the basis of a European arrest warrant has to be instructed in written form on his/her legal rights in a language he/she can understand without delay (§ 171 para. 4 StPO). The instruction in any case has to include
	1.	the right to be informed about the content of the European arrest warrant by the court when examined by the judge (§ 18, § 29 para. 3 ARHG);
	2.	the right to get a written translation of the European arrest warrant (§ 56 StPO);
	3.	the right to involve a defence lawyer in case of arrest including the right to contact with a defence lawyer on duty (§ 18, § 29 para. 3 ARHG, § 59 StPO) and the right to be represented by a defence lawyer in case of detention pending surrender (necessary defence, § 18, § 29 para. 4 ARHG, § 61 para. 1 StPO);
	4.	the possibility to agree to the surrender after conferring with a defence lawyer at the earliest during the first hearing on the detention and the consequences of such declaration (simplified surrender, § 20, § 32 para. 1 to 3 ARHG).
	5. 	the right to be represented by a defence lawyer in the issuing state whose task consists in supporting the Austrian defence lawyer with information and advice.
(2) The public prosecutor shall inform the issuing judicial authority without delay if the person concerned intends to make use of the right mentioned in para. 1 item 5 and is not yet represented by a defence lawyer in the issuing State.
(3) If the person against whom the European arrest warrant has been issued, is juvenile, she/he is to be instructed on her/his rights pursuant to an analogous application of § 32a of the Juvenile Offencer’s Act 1988 – Jugendgerichtsgesetz 1988 - JGG, Federal Law Gazette No. 599/1988. The legal representative has to be informed of such instruction as soon as possible.
Offer to Surrender
§ 17. (1) The public prosecutor shall verify, also when no European arrest warrant has been received, whether there are grounds for an offer to surrender a person apprehended in Austria to the Member State concerned if – on the basis of specific facts – it must be presumed that he/she has committed acts that are subject to the execution of such an arrest warrant.
(2) If there are grounds for offering the surrender, the public prosecutor shall apply for the launching of a surrender procedure, for the examination of the person concerned by the court and for addressing an inquiry to the judicial authority of the Member State in question.
(3) Upon application by the public prosecutor pursuant to § 18, the court shall impose detention pending surrender upon the person concerned, applying the provisions of § 29 of the ARHG in analogy, unless this appears to be inadmissible, and inquire from the judicial authority of the Member State concerned, enclosing a presentation of the facts, whether a European arrest warrant will be issued against the person concerned. A reasonable time limit shall be set for issuing such an arrest warrant, indicating that, when the time limit expires without any reaction being received, a renunciation of the surrender will be presumed, and the person concerned will be released. The time limit must never exceed 40 days, as of the apprehension of the person concerned. When the time limit expires without any reaction, the person concerned shall be released without delay, unless the public prosecutor applies immediately that pre-trial detention be imposed upon the person concerned.
Detention Pending Surrender
§ 18. (1) A European arrest warrant or an alert pursuant to Article 95 of the Schengen Agreement Application Convention (SAAC), Federal Law Gazette III No. 90/1997, shall be deemed to be a request for implementing a surrender procedure and imposing detention pending surrender.
(2) The provisions on detention pending extradition pursuant to § 29 of the ARHG shall apply in analogy to detention pending surrender.
Verification of European Arrest Warrants
§ 19. (1) The prerequisites for the surrender (§§ 4 to 13 and para. 4) shall be verified by way of the information contained in the European arrest warrant. 
(2) If the court is of the opinion that the information contained in the European arrest warrant and the other data provided by the issuing judicial authority is not sufficient in order to be able to decide on the surrender, the court shall ask the issuing judicial authority without delay for the necessary additional information. A reasonable time limit shall be set for receiving the additional information. The foregoing shall not affect the time limits for decisions, pursuant to § 20 and § 21.
(3) If the legal classification as an offence pursuant to Annex I, Part A, is obviously erroneous, or if the person concerned raised justified objections to them, the court shall proceed pursuant to paragraph (2), whenever the surrender would otherwise be inadmissible.
(4) The execution of the European arrest warrant shall be refused on the basis of objections raised by the person concerned, if his/her surrender were to violate the principles recognized in Article 6 of the Treaty on a European Union, or if there are objective indications that the arrest warrant was issued for reasons of his/her sex, race, religion, ethnic origin, nationality, language or political conviction or sexual orientation, or would otherwise affect the position of that person for one of these reasons. The objections need not be verified if the person concerned could have claimed the objections before the competent judicial authorities of the issuing State, before the European Court of Human Rights or before the Court of the European Union.
Interrogation or conditional surrender prior to a decision on surrender
§ 19a. Until the decision on surrender has been taken, upon request of the issuing judicial authority the person concerned
	1.	has to be interrogated applying §§ 55h and 55k analogously, or
	2.	has to be transferred temporarily if his or her presence at the proceedings on the admissibility of surrender can be guaranteed. § 26 shall be applied analogously.
Simplified Procedure
§ 20. (1) When examining the person concerned in connection with the European arrest warrant, the court shall inform him/her of the possibility of a simplified procedure. Moreover, § 32 para. 1 to 3 of the ARHG shall apply in analogy.
(2) If the person consents to the execution of the European arrest warrant and agrees to being surrendered without a formal procedure being executed, which shall be recorded in the court minutes, the court shall immediately pronounce the decision ordering the surrender, provided that the prerequisites for a surrender are met, and a written copy of the court decision shall be served, without delay, upon the person concerned and the public prosecutor. The copy shall indicate the underlying European arrest warrant and point out that this simplified procedure does not entail any entitlement to the speciality rule. A decision on a possible postponement of the surrender shall also be taken in this court decision. If the prerequisites for a surrender do not prevail, § 21 shall be applied to the further procedure.
(3) The person concerned and the public prosecutor have the right to appeal the decision pursuant to para. 2 by filing a complaint with the higher regional court within 3 days as of the pronouncement of the decision. The complaint has suspense effect. The second-instance court shall decide on a complaint against the decision to surrender within 40 days as of the consent given by the person concerned.
(4) The court shall inform the issuing judicial authority of the status of the procedure within 10 days as of the consent given by the person concerned or send it, without delay, a copy of the final and enforceable decision which constitutes the decision on the European arrest warrant.
Decision on Surrender
§ 21. (1) Within 30 days as of the apprehension the court shall order, by way of decision, whether the surrender of the person concerned is granted or refused, which decision shall be issued in writing. The procedural provisions on the admissibility of the extradition pursuant to § 31 para. 1 first sentence, para. 2 to 5 and para. 6 first to third sentence of the ARHG shall apply in analogy.
(2) A decision on the execution of the European arrest warrant has to be taken with final and enforceable effect within 60 days from the date of the arrest. If this time limit cannot be met, especially on account of the specific difficulties of a case, the court shall inform the issuing judicial authority accordingly, prior to the expiry of the time limit. In this case, the time limit for the decision shall be extended by another 30 days.
(2a) The time limits indicated in para. 1 and 2 are not affected by the right of the person concerned pursuant to § 16a para. 1 item 5.
(3) A detention pending surrender may be only continued beyond the time limit extended pursuant to the last sentence of para. 2 if this unavoidable, due to the special difficulties or the special scope of verifying the prerequisites for the execution of an arrest warrant, with a view to the weight of the grounds for the detention. The foregoing shall not affect the time limits pursuant to § 18 para. 2.
(4) The court shall communicate, without delay, a copy of the final and enforceable decision to the issuing judicial authority which constitutes the decision on the European arrest warrant.
European Arrest Warrants by Several Member States
§ 22. (1) If two or several Member States request the execution of a European arrest warrant against one and the same person, the court shall take a decision, considering all circumstances, which European arrest warrant shall be given priority. These circumstances shall include, in particular, the gravity of the act, the place of the offence, the time at which the European arrest warrant was issued, as well as the circumstance whether the arrest warrant was issued for conducting criminal prosecution or for enforcing a custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty. An opinion by Euro-just may be obtained prior to taking a decision.
(2) At the same time when taking the decision pursuant to para. 1, a decision shall be taken on the admissibility of the further surrenders in order to execute the other European arrest warrants, if the surrender to the issuing State takes place with the reservation of the speciality rule.
(3) These decisions shall be communicated to all Member States involved.
Coincidence of a European Arrest Warrant and a Request for Extradition
§ 23. (1) If one European arrest warrant and at least one request for extradition by a third country are received, the Federal Minister of Justice shall decide, after considering all circumstances pursuant to § 22 (1) and on the basis of the applicable agreements under international law, whether the European arrest warrant or the request for extradition shall take precedence.
(2) The court shall decide on the execution of the European arrest warrant and communicate the decision to the issuing State, indicating that the Federal Minister of Justice will decide whether the European arrest warrant takes precedence. The court shall submit to the Federal Minister of Justice all files, together with the decision on the admissibility of the extradition, to be taken pursuant to the provisions of the ARHG, or the consent to a simplified surrender. The court will inform the issuing State of the decision of the Federal Minister of Justice.
Executing the Surrender
§ 24. (1) § 36 of the ARHG shall apply to the execution of the surrender of the person concerned, on the basis of the following provisions. § 7 of the ARHG shall apply to the need for travel documents.
(2) If the surrender is made to a neighbouring State, or if the necessary transit permits have already been obtained, the court shall order – informing the issuing judicial authority at the same time – that the person concerned will be surrendered to the authorities of the neighbouring state at a specified border post, or an agreed place of surrender within 10 days after the permission of the surrender has become final and enforceable. In all other cases, the court shall request the issuing judicial authority in writing and without delay to accept the person concerned within 10 days, after the permission of the surrender has become final and enforceable, as well as to propose the time and place of the surrender. The Federal Ministry of the Interior (Federal Office of Criminal Investigations) shall also be informed without delay.
(3) If the person concerned is not taken over within 10 days after the permission of the surrender has become final and enforceable, he/she shall be released, unless a later date was agreed for the surrender during that period, or circumstances prevail that are beyond the control of the Member States involved. If such circumstances prevail, the court shall once again request the issuing judicial authority in writing, as described in para. 2, to take over the person concerned within 10 days after the obstacle has been eliminated and to make a proposal for the surrender. If the person is not taken over during that period, he/she shall be released.
(4) In connection with the execution of a European arrest warrant, objects shall be handed over pursuant to § 25 and § 41 of the ARHG, to the extent that these items are not personal belongings of the person concerned. If objects located in Austria are subject to confiscation or forfeiture, these objects may only be handed over to the issuing State on the condition that they will be returned at the latest and free of charge, after the criminal proceedings have been finished.
Postponing the Surrender
§ 25. (1) The court shall postpone the surrender upon application by the person concerned, by the public prosecutor or ex officio if
	1.	the person concerned is not in a position to be transported, or if there are serious reasons for presuming that implementing the surrender might constitute a risk to the life and limb of the person concerned,
	(Note: Item 2 repealed by Federal Law Gazette I No. 112/2007),
	3.	the person concerned is being held in pre-trial detention,
	4.	the presence of the person, who is at large, is urgently required for criminal proceedings in Austria,
	5.	the person concerned shall to be kept in pre-trial detention by the fiscal authorities, or
	6.	a custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty, which a court or an administrative authority imposed, is to be enforced in connection with the person concerned.
(2) If, on account of the surrender, the authorities refrain from criminal prosecution or execution (§ 192 para. 1 item 2 of the StPO, § 4 and § 157 para. 1 of the Enforcement of Punishments Act) and if all reasons for a postponement pursuant to para. 1 no longer apply, the person shall be surrendered without delay, with the proviso of § 24.
Conditional Surrender
§ 26. (1) If postponement of the surrender was ordered pursuant to § 25 para. 1 item 6, the person concerned may be surrendered on an interim basis to the issuing judicial authority in order to carry out certain procedural acts, for which execution of the European arrest warrant was granted, especially for the main trial and the delivery of the judgment, if the return of the person after conducting the procedural acts is guaranteed and a written agreement pursuant to para. 3 is signed. A temporary surrender shall not take place if it were to result in disproportionate disadvantages for the person concerned.
(2) A temporary surrender does not interrupt the enforcement of the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty in Austria.
(3) The agreement shall contain the following, as a minimum:
	1.	the designation of the procedural steps in which connection the conditional surrender is to be made;
	2.	the obligation to return the person concerned as quickly as possible after the procedural acts have been completed;
	3.	a time limit, after the expiry of which the person concerned must be returned in any event, unless an extension of the conditional surrender is agreed upon prior to the expiry of the time limit;
	4.	the obligation to continue to keep the surrendered person detained and to release him/her only upon an order by the competent court of the executing State;
	5.	a provision that the conditional surrender does not interrupt the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed by the executing State, and that the times spent in custody in the issuing State will be exclusively attributed to the proceedings in the executing State;
	6.	a provision that all costs in connection with the conditional surrender shall be borne by the issuing State.
(4) If there is reason to obtain a conditional surrender from another Member State, the court shall enter into a written agreement, pursuant to para. 3, with the executing judicial authority upon application by the public prosecutor.
Subsequent Surrender Procedure
§ 27a. (1) If, after a final decision on granting surrender (§ 21) the same Member State requests the consent to criminal prosecution of other criminal acts committed before the surrender or to the enforcement of a prison sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty because of such a criminal act or if this Member State transmits a European Arrest Warrant of another Member State with the request of consent to the further transfer to the other Member State, the court which has decided on the execution of the European Arrest Warrant on application of the office of public prosecution has to consent to the subsequent prosecution or surrender if the prerequisites for surrender pursuant to Part Two of Chapter II of this federal law prevail. The office of public prosecution has to request the issuing judicial authority to transmit a protocol of the declaration of the person concerned regarding the request or the European arrest warrant if such protocol has not been transmitted and the person concerned has already been surrendered.
(2) The procedural requirements on the admissibility of extradition pursuant to § 31 para. 1 first sentence, para. 2 to 5 and para. 6 first and third sentence of the ARHG shall apply in analogy. However, there is no hearing if the person concerned has already been surrendered.
(3) The time limits set in § 21 para. 1 and 2 shall apply in analogy.
(4) If after a final decision on granting consent to surrender (§ 21) a request for extradition of a third country with the request of consent to the further transfer of the person concerned is transmitted by the same Member State, § 40 ARHG is to be applied. The office of public prosecution has to request the issuing judicial authority of the other Member State to transmit a protocol of the declaration of the person concerned regarding the request for further transfer, if such protocol has not been transmitted and the person concerned has already been surrendered.
Costs
§ 28. The Republic of Austria shall bear the costs that accrue in Austria on account of the execution of the European arrest warrant. All other costs, including the costs of a conditional surrender, shall be borne by the issuing State.
Part Four
Obtaining the Execution of a European Arrest Warrant
Search
§ 29. (1) The public prosecutor shall order the apprehension by way of a European arrest warrant authorized by a court, and, if necessary, arrange for an alert of the requested person in the Schengen Information System, pursuant to Article 95 of the SAAC, through the channels of the competent security authorities, if there is reason to launch a search for the apprehension of the requested person in at least one of the Member States. If it is not possible for an alert in the Schengen Information System to obtain a search in all Member States, the services of the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) shall also be used.
(2) The public prosecutor shall communicate the European arrest warrant together with the judicial authorization directly to the competent executing judicial authority, if the whereabouts of the requested person in a Member State are known, or if there are certain indications for such whereabouts.
(2a) After filing the formal letter of accusation with the court the arrest on the basis of a European arrest warrant is to be ordered by the court on application of the office of public prosecution. The court in such cases also has to forward the European arrest warrant to the competent execution authority.
(2b) The transmission of the European arrest warrant pursuant to para. 2 and 2a can be combined with the request 
	1.	to interrogate the suspect or accused, with the possibility to request that §§ 55h and 55k shall be applied, or
	2.	to temporarily transfer the suspect or the accused in which case a stipulation has to be made that his or her presence for the hearing on the admissibility of surrender will be guaranteed. 
(3) If a Member State – in executing a European arrest warrant, which an Austrian judicial authority issues against a person who is a national of that Member State or has his/her domicile or permanent residence in that Member State – requires a guarantee that the person concerned will be returned for the enforcement of a custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty, imposed by the Austrian court, after having been heard, the court shall give that guarantee, upon an application by the public prosecutor, if there is continued reason to execute the European arrest warrant in that Member State. The guarantee shall be binding for the Austrian judicial authorities.
Content and Form of a European Arrest Warrant
§ 30. (1) The European arrest warrant shall be completed, using the form sheet pursuant to Annex II to the present federal law, and it shall contain the data indicated there.
(2) The European arrest warrant shall be translated into the official language or one of the official languages of the executing State.
(3) If Member States accept a European arrest warrant also in another than their own official languages, the Federal Minister of Justice shall proclaim this by way of ordinance.
Right to a defence lawyer
§ 30a. (1) A person, who was arrested on the basis of a European arrest warrant issued by an Austrian judicial authority has the right to authorise a defence lawyer.
(2) If the executing authority informs the public prosecutor that the person concerned intends to make use of this right the public prosecutor has to inform the person concerned about his/her possibility to contact an “on duty defence lawyer” (§ 59 para. 4 StPO) and the possibilities of authorising a defence lawyer as well as the perequisites for being granted a legal aid defence lawyer (§ 61 para. 2 StPO).
(3) If the person has been provided with a legal aid defence lawyer pursuant to § 61 para. 2 StPO his/her scope of activity if necessary also includes the support of the defence lawyer in the execution State.
Speciality and Further Surrender or Further Transit
§ 31. (1) A person, who was surrendered to Austria on the basis of a European arrest warrant, issued by an Austrian judicial authority, must neither be prosecuted, nor convicted, nor subjected to a custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty, nor surrendered to another Member State on the basis of a further European arrest warrant. A further transit to a third country shall always require the consent of the executing State.
(2) The speciality of surrender shall not be applied if
	1.	the person has not left the territory of the Republic of Austria within 45 days after his/her final release, although he/she could have left and was allowed to leave,
	2.	the person left the territory of the Republic of Austria and returns voluntarily, or is returned from a third country lawfully,
	3.	the act requiring prosecution does not carry a custodial sentence, nor a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty, or the criminal prosecution does not lead to the application of a measure restricting personal liberty,
	4.	a punishment or a measure that does not involve deprivation of liberty is enforced in connection with the person, especially a fine or a property-law order, even if this enforcement leads to a restriction of personal liberty, especially by enforcing a substitute prison term,
	5.	the person, after his/her surrender, expressly renounces the speciality rule, or agrees to the prosecution for a specific punishable act committed prior to the surrender,
	6.	the person agreed before the executing judicial authority to his/her surrender and expressly waived the speciality rule, or 
	7.	the executing judicial authority waived observance of the speciality principle, or agreed to the prosecution for other punishable acts committed prior to the surrender. 
(3) Waiving observance of the speciality rule or consenting to the conduct of a criminal prosecution for specific punishable acts committed prior to the surrender, pursuant to para. 2 item 5, shall only be effective if the person concerned has made these statements which are recorded by the public prosecutor or the court. The person concerned shall be instructed of the effects of the waiver and his/her consent, as well as informed that he/she is free to consult with a legal counsel beforehand.
(4) If there are no exemptions pursuant to para. 2, and if there is reason to prosecute the person concerned also for acts, or to enforce a custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty against the person concerned, which are not covered by the European arrest warrant, then a new European arrest warrant shall be issued for the purpose of amending the previously issued European arrest warrant by way of an order based on a court authorization. The new arrest warrant shall contain the data pursuant to Annex II. It shall be transmitted to the executing judicial authority, enclosing the record, which the public prosecutor or the court shall establish on the statement by the person concerned, with the request for granting its consent. § 70 para. 3 and 4 of the ARHG shall apply in analogy.
(5) If there are no exemptions pursuant to para. 2, or if another Member State requests the execution of a European arrest warrant, that arrest warrant shall be forwarded to the executing judicial authority with the request to grant its consent to the further surrender. 
(6) If a third country requests the extradition of the surrendered person, the court, upon application by the public prosecutor, shall always request the executing judicial authority for its consent to this further surrender, unless the consent of the executing State is deemed to have been granted pursuant to para. 7. The court shall make this request before submitting the files to the Federal Minister of Justice pursuant to § 32 para. 4 of the ARHG, or before taking a decision pursuant to § 31 of the ARHG. The request shall comprise copies of the extradition documents of the third country, as well as a court record drawn up with the person concerned on that person’s statements in relation to the request for extradition. 
(7) The Federal Minister of Justice shall proclaim, by way of ordinance, a list of those Member States that have informed the Secretary General of the Council of the European Union that their consent to an additional prosecution, conviction or enforcement of a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty or the surrender to another Member State shall be deemed to have been granted in relations to other Member States that have made the same communication, provided that the executing judicial authority does not issue another statement in a specific case in its decision on surrender.
(8) If the person concerned has previously been extradited by a third country to Austria and if the provisions on the principle of speciality or conditions imposed by the third country in connexion with the extradition and accepted by the Republic of Austria, contradict a further surrender the office of public prosecution immediately has to request the issuing judicial authority to transmit the documents necessary for granting extradition together with a translation into a language accepted by the third country indicating the obstacle contradicting surrender. Upon receipt these documents have to be transmitted to the Federal Ministry of Justice in order to obtain consent of the third country to surrender. The time limits indicated in §§ 20 and 21 begin on the day on which speciality or the conditions imposed do no longer contradict surrender.
Part Five
Transit
Admissibility of Transit
§ 32. (1) The transit of a person through the territory of the Republic of Austria to a Member State shall be granted on the basis of a previously filed request.
(2) No permission shall be required for a transit, if the air route is to be used and a stop-over on the territory of the Republic of Austria is not planned. In the case of a non-scheduled stop-over, transit shall be granted on the basis of a request to be issued by the issuing State.
(3) A title to serve a punishment in Austria concerning the person to be transited shall not oppose a transit. However, in this case the public prosecutor shall examine whether there is reason to request a further surrender or the extradition of the person to be transited, or to request the issuing State for taking over the criminal prosecution. 
(4) The provisions on transit shall apply in analogy to requests for the transit transport of persons over the territory of the Republic of Austria to a Member State for the purpose of taking over the criminal prosecution.
Transit of Austrian Nationals
§ 33. (Constitutional Provision) (1) The transit of Austrian nationals through the territory of the Republic of Austria shall only be admissible pursuant to the provisions of the present federal law.
(2) The transit of Austrian nationals for the purpose of enforcing a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty shall be inadmissible.
(3) The transit of Austrian nationals shall always take place on the condition that the Austrian national is returned to Austria after having been granted to be heard in court on the enforcement of a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty, issued by a court of the issuing State.
Transfer of Citizens of the European Union
§ 33a. § 33 para. 2 and 3 shall also be applied if the European arrest warrant has been issued against a Citizen of the European Union and
	1.	the citizen of the European Union has his/her domicile or permanent residence in Austria,
	2.	it can be assumed that the execution of a custodial sentence in Austria servers resocialisation and reintegration of the person convicted into society and
	3.	he or she has not forfeit his or her right of residence by a behaviour that constitutes an actual, present and considerable danger for public order and security.
Transit Documents
§ 34. (1) The transit shall be examined exclusively on the basis of the content of the request. Such a request shall contain the following information:
	1.	identity and nationality of the person concerned,
	2.	the existence of a European arrest warrant or a request for extradition,
	3.	the type and legal classification of the offence,
	4.	a description of the circumstances at which the offence was committed, including the time of the act and the place of the offence.
(2) The Federal Minister of Justice may demand additional documentation from the requesting State and fix a reasonable time limit for their delivery. When no reaction is received within the time limit, the decision shall be taken on the basis of the existing documentation.
(3) § 49 of the ARHG shall apply to the execution of the transit.
Decision of Transit
§ 35. The Federal Minister of Justice, in agreement with the Federal Minister of the Interior, shall decide on the transit. He shall communicate his decision directly to the requesting authority.
Obtaining a Transit
§ 36. (1) If there is reason for a transit through a Member State, on the basis of an Austrian European arrest warrant, the court or the office of public prosecution shall communicate the documents listed in § 34 to the competent authority of that Member State with the request to grant consent. The Federal Minister of Justice shall proclaim, by way of ordinance, a list of the authorities in the Member States with competences for receiving requests for transit.
(2) If there is reason to request a Member States for the transit of a person from a third country, on the basis of a request for extradition, the documents listed in § 34 shall be transmitted to the Federal Ministry of Justice in order to obtain the transit.
Costs of Transit
§ 37. The requesting Member State shall demand reimbursement of the costs of a transit through the territory of the Republic of Austria only if that State were not to bear the expenses of an equivalent Austrian request. In case of doubt, the Federal Minister of Justice shall provide information in this context.
Chapter III
Recognition and Enforcement of Judicial Decisions
Part One
Enforcement of Foreign Custodial Sentences and Preventive Measures Involving Deprivation of Liberty
Subdivision One
Enforcement of Judgements of other Member States
Prerequisites
§ 39. (1) A legally-binding custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty for life or for a limited period of time imposed on a natural person either staying in the issuing State or in Austria by a court of another Member State on the basis of criminal proceedings, shall be enforced in accordance with the following prerequisites under the terms of this Subdivision:
	1.	independently from the consent of the sentenced person if he or she
	a)	is an Austrian national and has his or her domicile or permanent residence in Austria;
	b)	has his or her domicile or permanent residence in Austria and has fled to Austria in view of the criminal proceedings pending against him or her in the issuing State or following the conviction in this State or otherwise returned there;
	c)	would be deported to Austria after having served the sentence or measure imposed on the basis of an expulsion or deportation order or a restraining order, independently from whether this decision is included in the judgment or has been taken separately by a court or administrative authority consequential to the judgment;
	2.	with consent of the sentenced person and only in relation to the Member States that have made such declaration, if the sentenced person is not an Austrian national but has been legally residing continuously for at least five years in Austria and does not lose his or her permit as a permanent or long-term resident in Austria due to the conviction; or
	3.	with consent of the sentenced person if due to certain circumstances the sentenced person has such close bonds to Austria that it can be assumed that the enforcement in Austria would serve the purpose of facilitating the social rehabilitation and reintegration of the sentenced person into society, even if the prerequisites of para. 1 and 2 do not apply, unless the sentenced person loses his or her residence permit in Austria as a consequence of the conviction.
(2) The Federal Ministry of Justice has to announce by ordinance which Member States have made a declaration according to para.1 item 2.
Inadmissibility of Enforcement
§ 40. The enforcement of a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed by final and absolute decision of a court of another Member State shall not be admitted even though the prerequisites of § 39 para. 1 are met,
	1.	if the criminal acts in respect of which the judgment was issued do not constitute offences punishable by the courts under Austrian law; for fiscal offences § 12 applies accordingly;
	2.	if at the time the documents mentioned in § 41a para. 1 are received by the competent court less than six months of the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed remain to be served. In such case, several custodial sentences or remaining parts of such sentences to be enforced have to be added up;
	3.	if the criminal acts in respect of which the judgment was delivered were committed wholly or for a major part in Austria or on board of an Austrian vessel or aircraft and the office of public prosecution has decided to dismiss the case because of the same criminal act or closed the proceedings due to other reasons;
	4.	if the sentenced person has been convicted in Austria for the same criminal act in respect of which the judgment was delivered or if there has been a legally binding judgment in another state that has already been enforced;
	5.	if the criminal act in respect of which the judgment was delivered was committed by a person who, owing to his or her age, could not have been held criminally responsible under Austrian law;
	6.	if the enforcement of the custodial sentence imposed or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty is statute-barred under Austrian law;
	7.	insofar as the sentenced person has been granted an amnesty or a pardon in Austria or in the issuing State;
	8.	insofar as enforcement would violate provisions on immunity;
	9.	if the judgment was rendered in absentia of the sentenced person, unless it emanates from the certificate that the person in accordance with the procedural rules of the issuing State
	a)	was in fact informed in due time by personal summons or in any other way of the time and place of the trial leading to the judgment and was also informed that the decision can be taken in absentia; or
	b)	aware of the time and place of the trial entrusted a selected lawyer or a lawyer appointed by the court with his or her representation in the trial and was in fact represented by this lawyer during the trial; or
	c)	after having been served the judgment in absentia and after having been instructed about the right to request a review of the judgment or to appeal against the decision and thus achieve a new evaluation of the facts also taking into account new evidence in his or her presence and a suspension of the decision,
	aa)	explicitly declared not to request a review of the judgment or to appeal against the decision or
	bb)	within the existing time limits does not request a review of the judgment or appeal against the decision;
	10.	if the custodial sentence imposed also includes a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty which could not be enforced in Austria even considering the possibilities of reducing or adapting the sentence of § 41b para. 3 and 4;
	11.	if the issuing state, before a decision on the enforcement is taken, does not consent to a request pursuant to § 41e para. 4 in accordance with § 41e para. 2 item 7, that the sentenced person can be prosecuted, sentenced or otherwise subjected to the enforcement of a custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty for a criminal act committed prior to the transfer other than that for which the person was transferred; or
	12.	if there are objective facts that prove that the judgment as been rendered in violation of fundamental rights or fundamental principles of Article 6 of the Treaty on the European Union, especially that the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty has been imposed for the purpose of punishing the sentenced person for his/her sex, race, religion, ethnic origin, nationality, language, political conviction or sexual orientation, and the sentenced person did not have the possibility to bring these circumstances to the European Court of Human Rights or the Court of the European Union.
Competences
§ 40a. (1) The Regional Courts are competent for the decision on the enforcement of a custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty. If at least five years of the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty remain to be enforced, the Regional Court decides as senate of three judges (§ 31 para. 6 StPO).
(2) The territorial competence is based on the place where the sentenced person has his or her domicile or residence. If the person is in judicial detention in Austria it is based on the place where the person is detained. If under these provisions no competent court can be determined, the Regional Criminal Court in Vienna shall be competent.
(3) If the court that has been requested to enforce a judgment is not competent, it shall forward the case to the competent court. 
Custody to secure enforcement
§ 41. (1) Upon application of the office of public prosecution the court can arrest the sentenced person prior to forwarding the judgment with the certificate or prior to the decision on the enforcement in order to secure the enforcement, if
	1.	a corresponding request of the issuing state is presented, the sentenced person is in Austria and the enforcement is not a priori inadmissible;
	2.	due to specific facts there is the strong suspicion that the sentenced person will try to avoid enforcement because of the duration of the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty to be enforced;
	3.	the consent of the sentenced person to the enforcement in Austria is not necessary.
(2) The provisions on custody after bringing formal charges (§ 175 para. 5 StPO) shall be applied correspondingly to the procedure of imposing, continuing and terminating custody according to para. 1. Custody has to be terminated in any case if the time limits of § 41a para. 4 have expired or if the enforcement is dismissed (§ 41f).
Procedure
§ 41a. (1) Enforcement requires that 
	1.	the judgment to be enforced
	2.	the certificate signed by the competent authority of the issuing State (Annex VII) and, unless the issuing State has declared to accept certificates in the German language as executing State (§ 42b para. 5), the translation of the certificate into the German language;
	3.	the opinion of the sentenced person on the forwarding of the documents listed in items 1 and 2 or the record of his or her oral statement; and
	4.	in the case that the sentenced person is already in Austria the standard form for the notification of the sentenced person (Annex VIII)
are forwarded to the court.
(2) If the conditions set out in § 39 para. 1 prevail, the Austrian court can request the competent authority of the issuing State, also on request of the sentenced person, to forward the documents mentioned in para. 1.
(3) In the cases of § 39 para. 1 item 3 the court shall first consult with the competent authority of the issuing State whether the conditions set out in this provision prevail. If the court due to the results of the consultation is convinced that enforcement in Austria will serve the purpose of facilitating the social rehabilitation and reintegration of the sentenced person into society, the competent authority of the issuing State has to be informed immediately that the documents listed in para. 1 can be forwarded.
(4) If
	1.	the certificate is not forwarded or is not complete in essential parts or clearly contradicts the judgment; or
	2.	there are indications that the conditions set out in § 39 para. 1 are not met or that one of the reasons for the inadmissibility of enforcement listed in § 40 items 3, 4, 10 and 12 prevail,
the competent authority of the issuing State shall be requested to forward the missing documents, complete them or forward additional information within an appropriate period to be determined, together with the information that in case the time limit expires the judgment will be enforced neither partly nor completely and the sentenced person will be released. 
(5) Prior to the decision a reasoned opinion shall be forwarded to the competent authority of the issuing State stating that the enforcement of the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty in Austria in the cases of § 39 para. items 1 and  2 does not serve the purpose of facilitating the social rehabilitation and reintegration of the sentenced person into society, especially because the relatives of the sentenced person live in the issuing State or in another (Member) State or because the sentenced person is working in the issuing State or in another (Member) State. If the competent authority of the issuing State after examining this opinion declares that the certificate will not be withdrawn, the enforcement shall be taken over if the other prerequisites prevail. 
(6) Prior to the decision on partial inadmissibility of the enforcement the competent authority of the issuing State shall be requested to explain whether and if yes under which circumstances consent is given to a partial enforcement or whether the certificate is being withdrawn.
(7) When deciding on the inadmissibility of the enforcement based on the reasons stated in § 40 item 3 it shall especially be taken into consideration whether the criminal act in respect of which the judgment was issued, was partly or wholly committed on the territory of the issuing State.
(8) The sentenced person has to be heard concerning the prerequisites of enforcement (§§ 39 and 40) and the completed standard form under Annex VIII shall be handed over to him or her if he or she is in Austria.
(9) § 14 para. 1 to 5 apply to the means of communication.
Decision
§ 41b. (1) The decision on enforcement shall be taken in the form of a court order. The order has to contain the denomination of the court that issued the judgment to be enforced, its case number, a short description of the facts including time and place of the criminal act, the denomination of the criminal act and the applicable legal provisions.
(2) If the decision is taken to enforce the judgment, the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty to be enforced in Austria (subject to the provisions of para. 3 and 4) shall be determined in such nature and duration that it corresponds to the sentence imposed in the judgment to be enforced. §§ 38 and 66 StGB are applicable.
(3) If the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed exceeds the maximum penalty provided for the same offence or for similar offences under Austrian law, it shall be adapted to the maximum penalty provided for similar offences under Austrian law.
(4) If the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed is incompatible with Austrian law in terms of its nature, it shall be adapted to the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty provided for under Austrian law for similar offences. The adapted custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty shall correspond as closely as possible to the sentence imposed in the issuing State and shall not aggravate it.
(5) The office of public prosecution and the sentenced person are entitled to appeal against the court order within 14 days to the Superior Regional Court.
(6) To the enforcement, the release on probation and the procedure of granting pardon Austrian law shall be applied.
Postponing the decision on enforcement
§ 41c. The decision on the enforcement of the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty may be postponed
	1.	until a final and absolute decision on the appeal against the court order has been taken (§ 41b para. 5);
	2.	until the judgment to be enforced is translated provided that the court considers this necessary and orders the translation at its own costs;
	3.	until the supplementary information or documents requested from the competent authority of the issuing State are received.
Time limits for the decision
§ 41d. Unless there is a reason for the postponement of the decision on the enforcement according to § 41c, the decision shall be taken within 90 days from the time the competent court has received the documents listed in § 41a para. 1. If this time limit cannot be met in exceptional cases, the court shall inform the competent authority of the issuing State giving the reasons for the delay and the time presumably needed for the final decision to be taken.
Specialty
§ 41e. (1) A person transferred to Austria pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter for the enforcement of the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed on him or her in the issuing State shall not, subject to para. 2, be prosecuted, sentenced or subjected to the enforcement of a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty for a criminal act committed before his or her transfer other than that for which he or she was transferred.
(2) The principle of specialty shall not apply if
	1.	the sentenced person did not leave the territory of Austria within 45 days of his or her final discharge although he or she had been able and entitled to do so;
	2.	the sentenced person has left the territory of Austria and returns voluntarily or is returned by a third state;
	3.	the criminal act to be prosecuted is not punishable with a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty or if the criminal prosecution does not give rise to the application of a measure restricting personal liberty;
	4.	the sentenced person is subject to the enforcement of a penalty or a measure not involving a deprivation of liberty or a pecuniary order, even if this enforcement, especially in form of the enforcement of a supplementary custodial sentence, might lead to a restriction of the personal liberty;
	5.	the sentenced person consented to the transfer;
	6.	the sentenced person expressly renounced entitlement to the specialty rule after his or her transfer; or
	7.	the competent authority of the issuing State consents to the prosecution, sentencing or enforcement of the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty.
(3) A renunciation of the entitlement to the specialty rule according to paragraph (2) item 6 is only valid if a declaration of the sentence person is recorded by the court. Prior to this, the person shall be informed about the consequence of renouncing this right and that he or she may speak with a lawyer before making this declaration.
(4) The request for consent according to para. 2 item 7, which, subject to the provisions of § 30 para. 3, shall be accompanied by a translation into the or into one of the official language(s) of the executing State, shall contain the information of a European arrest warrant to be considered according to Annex II. It may contain the information that consent is taken for granted if the competent authority of the issuing State does not forward a decision or any other form of answer within 30 days after receipt of the request.
Discontinuing enforcement
§ 41f. If the competent authority of the issuing State declares that the judgment imposing the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty, or its enforceability has been suspended, or that enforcement is no longer requested due to other reasons, enforcement shall be dismissed. The same applies if the certificate (Annex VII) is withdrawn by the competent authority of the issuing State. 
Information of the issuing State
§ 41g. The court shall inform the competent authority of the issuing State without delay using the means of communication listed in § 14 para. 3,
	1.	if it forwards the case to the competent court (§ 40a para. 3);
	2.	of the provisions on release on probation under Austrian law indicating the earliest possible date for this and the duration of the probation period, if requested to do so in the certificate;
	3.	if the sentence cannot be enforced because the sentenced person cannot be found in Austria after forwarding the documents listed in § 41a para. 1;
	4.	of the final decision to enforce the sentence indicating the date the decision became final;
	5.	if the enforcement of the sentence is partially or wholly refused, together with the reasons for such decision;
	6.	if the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty is reduced or adapted, together with the reasons for such decision (§ 41b para. 3 and 4);
	7.	if the sentence is not enforced because of a an amnesty or pardon granted to the sentenced person;
	8.	if the sentenced person fled from custody before the enforcement of the sentence; or
	9.	if the enforcement of the sentence has been completed.
Costs
§ 41h. Costs resulting from the enforcement of a sentence from another state, with the exception of the costs of the transfer of the sentenced person to Austria and the costs arising exclusively in the sovereign territory of the issuing State, are covered by the Federal State. 
Transit
§ 41i. (1) Transit of a sentenced person through the territory of the Republic of Austria to another Member State shall be permitted on the grounds of a previous request to which a copy of the certificate (Annex VII) is attached. The request may be forwarded by one of the means mentioned in § 14 para. 3.
(2) If no German translation is attached to the certificate, the Member State requesting the transit may be asked to provide a translation of the certificate into the German or English language.
(3) A transit-permission is not required in the case of transport by air without scheduled stopover on the territory of the Republic of Austria. In the case of an unscheduled landing in Austria, transit is permitted on the grounds of a request by the issuing State together with a copy of the certificate (Annex VII), which shall be forwarded within 72 hours. Para. 2 is applicable.
(4) Reasons for prosecuting the person to be transited in Austria do not impede transit. The office of public prosecution shall however examine whether it is appropriate to request the surrender of the person to be transited or to request the executing State to take over criminal prosecution or to enforce the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed in Austria.
(5) The Federal Minister of Justice decides on the admission of transit together with the Federal Minister of the Interior within 7 days from the receipt of the request. The decision shall be postponed until the translation requested according to paragraph (2) has been received. The competent authority of the issuing State shall be informed of the decision without delay by the means indicated in § 14 para. 3. 
(6) For the duration of the transit the sentenced person shall be held in custody. § 49 ARHG is applicable to the procedure of transit. 
(7) The requesting Member State shall be requested to pay the costs for transit through the territory of the Republic of Austria, unless this state would cover the costs for a similar Austrian request. If there is any doubt on the reciprocity, the Federal Ministry of Justice shall be asked for further information or advice.  
Cases of the European Arrest Warrant
§ 41j. The provisions of this Subdivision with the exception of §§ 39, 40, 41 para. 1 items 1 and 3, 41a para. 1 item 3 and para. 2 to para. 8, regarding cases of item 2 also with the exception of § 41e, shall also be applied to the following cases under the condition that enforcement cannot be refused if the certificate (Annex VII) is not forwarded subsequently, supplemented or corrected on time:
	1.	if an Austrian judicial authority is requested to execute an European arrest warrant concerning an Austrian national or a citizen of the European Union concerning whom the prerequisites of § 5a prevail in order to enforce a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty and all other prerequisites for surrender of the person concerned according to Chapter II of this federal law are met (§ 5 para. 4), or
	2.	if the execution of an European arrest warrant against an Austrian national has been permitted under the condition that he or she is returned to serve the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed by the court of the issuing State (§ 5 para. 5).
Subdivision Two
Obtaining enforcement in another Member State
Prerequisites
§ 42. (1) The enforcement of a life-term or time-limited custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed with final decision by an Austrian court after criminal proceedings on a natural person either living in Austria or in the executing State in another Member State shall be obtained under the following conditions according to the provisions of this Subdivision:
	1.	regardless of the consent of the sentenced person if the sentenced person
	a.)	is a national of the executing State and lives or permanently resides in this State;
	b.)	lives or permanently resides in the executing State and fled there with a view to the criminal proceedings pending against him or her in Austria or the sentence imposed in Austria;
	c.)	would be deported to the executing State due to an expulsion or deportation order or a residence prohibition, independently from whether this decision is included in the judgment or in a separate judicial or administrative decision, after the end of the enforcement of the sentence or other measure imposed;
	2.	with the consent of the sentenced person and if the executing State has made the corresponding declaration, if the sentenced person is not a national of the executing State but has been living or legally residing there continuously for at least five years and will not lose his or her permission to permanently stay or reside in the executing State due to the judgment. 
	3.	with the consent of the sentenced person and the competent authority of the executing State if regardless of the absence of the conditions set out in items 1 and 2 due to certain facts the sentenced person has such intense bonds to the executing State that it can be assumed that the enforcement of the sentence in this state will serve the purpose of facilitating the social rehabilitation and reintegration of the sentenced person into society. 
(2) The Federal Minister of Justice has to announce by ordinance which Member States have made declarations according to para. 1 item 2.
Role of the Head of the Detention Facility
§ 42a. The head of the detention facility has to make a written protocol with a sentenced person to whom the prerequisites mentioned in § 42 apply or will presumably apply without delay after the sentenced person has arrived about his or her declaration regarding the enforcement of the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving a deprivation of liberty in the executing State. This protocol has to contain the exact domicile or permanent residence of the sentenced person in the executing State and if applicable also if due to the Austrian judgment there is already a deportation or expulsion order or a prohibition to stay against the sentenced person. The protocol has to be presented to the Federal Ministry of Justice in order to examine whether enforcement can be obtained. 
Involvement of another Member State
§ 42b. (1) After the head of the detention facility presents the documents listed in § 42a, the Federal Ministry of Justice has to examine whether the prerequisites according to § 42 prevail or presumably will prevail. Where appropriate, the Federal Ministry of Justice shall request the competent authority of the executing State to enforce the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed. 
(2) The Federal Ministry of Justice shall consult the competent authority of the executing State prior to forwarding the documents listed in para. 4 by any appropriate means in order to obtain the consent necessary under § 42 para. 1 item 3. It shall set forth due to which reasons the enforcement of the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed in the executing State serves the purpose of facilitating the social rehabilitation and reintegration of the sentenced person into society.
(3) The Federal Ministry of Justice may, on a case-by-case basis, decide not to request the enforcement of the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed in the executing State if due to specific circumstances the sentenced person has such close bonds to Austria that it can be assumed that the enforcement of the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed in Austria serves the purpose of facilitating the social rehabilitation and reintegration of the sentenced person into society.
(4) The Federal Ministry of Justice shall forward the following documents to the competent authority of the executing State:
	1.	the judgment together with its translation, if such translation has already been made for the sentenced foreigner in the national proceedings;
	2.	a certificate (Annex VII) completed and signed with the request to forward the applicable provisions of the executing State on release on probation or early release and, unless the executing State has declared to accept certificates also in the German language, their translation in one of the official languages of the executing State or any other language accepted by this State;
	3.	the protocol of the declaration of the sentenced person under § 42a; and
	4.	if the sentenced person is already in the executing State, the completed standard form for the notification of the sentenced person (Annex VIII).

(5) If the competent authority of the executing State does not consider the certificate enough to decide on the enforcement, on its request a translation of the judgment or the relevant parts of such in to the official language or one of the official languages of the executing State or in any other official language of the institutions of the European Union accepted by the executing State shall be forwarded to such authority. Where appropriate, the relevant parts of the judgment to be translated shall be identified in the framework of consultations by the competent authority of the executing State. The translation of the judgment or the relevant parts of it may only be requested if the executing State has made the corresponding declaration. 
(6) A request of the competent authority of the executing State or the sentenced person to forward the documents listed in para. 4 does not constitute an obligation to forward them. 
(7) If the competent authority of the executing State after the forwarding of the documents listed in para. 4 forwards a reasoned opinion that the enforcement or the custodial sentence of the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed does not serve the purpose of facilitating the social rehabilitation and reintegration of the sentenced person into society in the executing State under the terms of § 42 para. 1 items 1 and 2, the Federal Ministry of Justice has to examine whether the certificate (Annex VII) shall be withdrawn. The competent authority of the executing State shall be informed of the result of such examination stating the reasons for the decision. 
(7a) If the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty has been imposed because of more than one criminal act and if the competent authority of the executing State forwards the information that enforcement cannot be taken over with regard to an individual act, the court that has taken the decision in first instance has to decide with a resolution on request of the office of pubic prosecution which part of the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty corresponds to this criminal act regarding which enforcement has been taken over. If a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty of at least five years has been imposed, the decision is taken by the Landesgericht (Regional Court) as a senate of three judges (§ 31 para. 6 StPO). Against this resolution the office of public prosecution and the sentenced person have the right to appeal to the Oberlandesgericht (Higher Regional Court) within 14 days. After the decision is final and binding the Federal Ministry of Justice has to forward it to the competent authority of the executing State.
(8) § 14 para. 1 to 5 shall be applied to the means of communication. If the judgment and the certificate have not been forwarded by mail, a copy or certified copy of the judgment and the original certificate shall be forwarded by mail on request of the competent authority of the executing State. 
(9) It is not admitted to request more than one Member State at a time to enforce a sentence.
(10) The sentenced person staying in Austria shall be informed of the decision to request enforcement in the executing State in a language understood by him or her using the completed standard form in Annex VIII. 
(11) The Federal Ministry of Justice has to publish by decree which Member States accept which official languages (para. 4 item 2) and which Member States have made the declaration under para. 5.
Revocation of the Request
§ 42c. The Federal Ministry of Justice has to inform the competent authority of the executing State without delay if
	1.	the judgment imposing the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty or its enforceability has been set aside, modified or the duration of the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty has been reduced;
	2.	enforcement is no longer requested due to other reasons, for example because the sentenced person would be released on probation or early before serving one half of the sentence under the terms of national legislation of the executing State, and therefore the certificate is withdrawn.
Enforcement in Austria
§ 42d. (1) As soon as the enforcement of the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty has begun in the executing State, it shall not be further enforced in Austria.
(2) Enforcement may be continued
	1.	after the competent authority of the executing State has been informed that enforcement is no longer requested;
	2.	after the competent authority of the executing State has informed the Austrian authorities that the sentence could not be wholly enforced because the sentence person fled from detention before serving the complete sentence;
	3.	if the sentence could not be enforced in the executing State because the sentenced person could not be found in this State.
Execution of Transit
§ 42e. (1) If the sentenced person is in Austria he or she has to be transferred to the executing State at a time agreed with the competent authority of the executing State, at the latest however, 30 days after the decision on enforcement becomes final. In the cases listed in § 42b para. 7a the sentenced person can only be transferred when he or she has served that part of the custodial sentence or the preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty regarding which the enforcement has not been taken over, in Austria.
(2) If it is not possible to transfer the person within the time set out in para. 1 due to unforeseen circumstances, the competent authority of the executing State has to be informed without delay. In such case the person shall be transferred within 10 days from the new time agreed with the competent authority of the executing State after the termination of the difficulties or reasons for the delay.
(3) The transfer of the sentenced person to the competent authority of the executing State has to be organised by the court whose sentence is being enforced at the time applying § 24 analogously.
Consent to prosecution, sentencing or enforcement of sentences because of other criminal acts
§ 42f. (1) Upon request of the competent authority of the enforcing State the court whose sentence is being enforced at the time the request is received or has last been enforced shall allow prosecution or sentencing of the sentenced person because of a criminal act committed before the surrender other than the one on which the transfer is based, as well as the enforcement of a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty for such criminal act, if appropriate pursuant to the provision of § 11 item 3 if the prerequisites for surrender according to Chapter II of this federal law prevail. The decision has to be taken at the latest 30 days from the receipt of the request.
(2) The request shall contain the necessary information of a European arrest warrant in Annex II and, without prejudice to § 30 para. 3, shall be forwarded together with a German translation. 
Obtaining Transit
§ 42g. (1) If due to a judgment delivered by an Austrian court, it seems necessary to transfer the sentenced person through another Member State, the Federal Ministry of Justice shall forward a request for transfer, which can be forwarded by the means mentioned in § 14 para. 3, to the competent authority of the Member State concerned together with a copy of the certificate (Annex VII).
(2) A translation of the certificate into one of the languages accepted by this Member State shall be forwarded to the Member State requested to allow transfer through its territory on its request. The languages accepted by this Member State shall be indicated in such request.
Subdivision One
Execution of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805
Execution of Freezing Orders
§ 43. (1) A freezing order (Article 2 para. 1 Regulation (EU) 2018/1805) of another Member State except Denmark or Ireland on property (Article 2 para. 3 Regulation (EU) 2018/1805) that might be subject to a subsequent confiscation order (Article 2 para. 2 Regulation (EU) 2018/1805) has to be executed pursuant to the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 and the provisions of this subdivision.
(2) The office of public prosecution has to initiate proceedings in order to execute a freezing order if another Member State transmits a freezing certificate (Article 6 Regulation (EU) 2018/1805) or if due to certain facts it can be assumed that an item of property that has been entered into the Schengen Information System as being wanted is located within Austria. The deciding authority has to be requested to present a certificate or a letter of request setting a reasonable time limit if the property item is located within Austria.
(3) If the freezing order has not been issued because of a criminal act listed in Article 3 para. 1 of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 mutual criminality has to be verified (Article 8 para. 1 lit. e Regulation (EU) 2018/1805).
(4) For the proceedings to execute a freezing order the office of prosecution in whose court district the property item is located or the affected person has property regarding which the decision is to be enforced, shall be competent as executing authority (Article 2 para. 9 Regulation (EU) 2018/1805). If in this way a competent office of public prosecution cannot be determined, the location of the domicile or the permanent residence of the affected person shall determine the competent office of public prosecution. If it is an association (§ 1 para. 2 and 3 VbVG) also the place where it has its registered office, its operation or its branch office shall determine the competent office of public prosecution. If applying these provisions no competent office of public prosecution can be determined, the Vienna office of public prosecution is competent. If the deciding authority transmits also a confiscation order to be recognized and executed, the competent authority is determined pursuant to § 52 para. 3 and 4 EU-JZG.
(5) If for the execution of the freezing order an application for confiscation would be filed in a similar Austrian case according to Austrian law the office of public prosecution has to file the necessary applications at the court. If the court during the proceedings on the application of the office of public prosecution or after the execution of the freezing order considers it necessary due to actual or legal reasons to obtain more information from the issuing authority or to send a request pursuant to article 12 para. 2 of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 to such authority, it has to order the office of public prosecution to do so.
(6) If para. 5 is not applicable the office of public prosecution has to order the execution of the freezing order. The order has to contain:
	1.	the information listed in § 102 para. 2 items 1, 2 and 4 StPO,
	2.	the reasons why the execution is admissible and
	3.	a copy of the freezing certificate.
(7) Against the order of the office of public prosecution, the decision of the court and against violations of legal rights in the framework of executing the freezing order the legal remedies provided for in Austrian law can be filed notwithstanding article 33 para. 2 of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1805.
Obtaining the execution of freezing orders
§ 44. If in investigation proceedings a freezing order has to be executed in another Member State except Denmark and Ireland, the office of public prosecution has to apply for confiscation (§ 109 para. 2 StPO) at the court. As a consequence the freezing certificate (Annex I of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 has to be issued and transmitted by the court.
Subdivision Two
Execution of freezing orders from Denmark and Ireland
Prerequisites
§ 45. (1) With regard to the relation with Danmark and Ireland a decision on seizure of means of evidence can be taken or executed because of criminal acts carrying court punishment according to the law of the deciding State and, subject to the provision of para. 3, according to the law of the executing State.
(2) With regard to the relation with Denmark and Ireland a decision on the freezing of property that might subsequently become subject to an order relating to property rights may be issued or executed because of criminal acts that allow freezing according to the law of the deciding State and of the executing State.
(3) For a decision pursuant to para. 1 or 2 double criminality need not be verified if the offence underlying the freezing order was assigned to one of the categories of offences listed in Annex I and carries a maximum custodial sentence of at least three years according to the law of the issuing State. 
(4) The freezing order will only be executed if it is accompanied by a certificate in the form shown in Annex III. If the certificate is incomplete, or if it obviously does not correspond to the freezing order, the issuing judicial authority may be set a time limit for completing or correcting the information, if the available documents are not sufficient for a decision on the execution of the freezing order.
Competences and Procedure
§ 46. (1) § 43 para. 2 and 4 to 7 shall apply in analogy. The issuing judicial authority shall be informed of the filing of the complaint, as well as of the outcome of the procedure on the complaint.
(2) A request for executing a freezing order which requires a procedure deviating from Austrian criminal procedural law, shall be satisfied, if this can be reconciled with the criminal proceedings and its principles pursuant to  Chapter 1 StPO.
(3) A decision on the execution of a freezing order has to be taken within 24 hours if possible. The issuing authority shall be informed of the decision.
Refusal to Execute
§ 47. (1) It is inadmissible for an Austrian judicial authority to execute a freezing order if
	1.	the prerequisites according to § 45 do not prevail,
	2.	there are privileges and immunities under Austrian law that make it impossible to execute a freezing order, or
	3.	the certificate (§ 45 para. 4) indicates that by executing a decision on confiscation or forfeiture the principle listed in § 7 para. 1 were to be violated.
(2) In criminal matters relating to charges, taxes, customs and foreign exchange transactions the execution of a freezing order cannot be refused by giving as a reason that Austrian law does not contain provisions on charges, taxes, customs or foreign-exchange transactions of the same type as under the law of the issuing State.
Postponing an Execution
§ 48. (1) The execution of a freezing order shall be postponed if the property or the evidence was already confiscated in the course of proceedings pending in Austria or seized.
(2) If the confiscation or seizure in domestic proceedings is lifted, a decision shall be taken immediately on the execution of the freezing order.
(3) The execution of a freezing order may be postponed for as long as it would jeopardize the purpose of the pending investigations.
Duration of Confiscation or Freezing
§ 49. If no request for delivery of the evidence or execution of a forfeiture or collection decision is enclosed with the freezing order, by annexing the decision to be executed, the confiscation or freezing shall be maintained until a decision is reached concerning the request for judicial assistance of the issuing State relating to the evidence or property in question, provided that the prerequisites for confiscation or freezing under the present provision continue to apply. Moreover, the procedure shall comply with the second sentence of § 58 of the ARHG.
Obligation to Inform
§ 50. If the execution of a freezing order proves to be inadmissible, to be actually impossible or requires postponing, the office of public prosecution shall forward this information immediately to the issuing authority. The same shall apply to appeals against the execution and the performed execution of the freezing order.
Exchanges between Authorities and Translations
§ 51. (1) § 14 shall apply in analogy to the exchanges between authorities on the execution of a freezing order.
(2) The certificate according to Annex III relating to freezing orders by Austrian courts shall be translated into the official language of the Member State in which the freezing order is to be executed; unless that State has issued a statement that it will accept a translation into German or another language.
Part Three
Execution of Orders Relating to Property Rights
Subdivision One
Implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805
Execution of confiscation orders
§ 52. (1) A confiscation order (article 2 para. 2 Regulation (EU) 2018/1805) of another Member State except Denmark and Ireland on property items (article 2 para. 3 Regulation (EU) 2018/1805) shall be executed pursuant to the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 and the provisions of this subdivision.
(2) If the confiscation order is not based on one of the criminal acts listed in article 3 para. 1 of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 mutual criminality has to be verified (article 19 para. 1 lit. f Regulation (EU) 2018/1805).
(3) The single judge of the Regional Court has jurisdiction in cases of the decision on the execution of a confiscation order.
(4) The court venue shall be determined by the place at which the item regarding which the confiscation order was issued, is located or at which the affected person has property regarding which the decision can be executed. If a competent authority cannot be determined pursuant to these provisions, the court competent for the place where the affected person has his or her domicile or permanent residence shall have jurisdiction. If it is an association (§ 1 para. 2 and 3 VbVG) also the court competent for the place where it has its registered office, its operation or its branch office shall have jurisdiction. If also pursuant to these provisions a competent court cannot be determined, the Regional Criminal Court in Vienna has jurisdiction.
(5) If property items regarding which a confiscation order could be issued, are not frozen, the court on application of the office of public prosecution can order the freezing of such property items (article 18 para. 5 of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1805) if this is considered necessary to secure confiscation and unless due to certain facts it can be assumed that a confiscation order would be denied.
(6) The confiscation order has to be served to the affected person and he or she has to be heard regarding the prerequisites for execution if such person can be summoned within Austria.
(7) The decision on the confiscation order shall be taken in the form of a court order. This order has to include the name of the authority whose decision is executed, its case number, a short report of the facts including time and place of the criminal act and the measures ordered as well as the denomination of the criminal act.
(8) If the execution of a confiscation order regarding a sum of money is accepted, the sum to be confiscated in Austria shall be determined as the amount of money quoted in the decision to be executed. If this amount is not quoted in Euros, it shall be converted at the exchange rate applicable on the day on which the decision to be executed has been taken. Previously made payments and contributed amounts shall be taken into account.
(9) The office of public prosecution and the person affected by the decision have the right to file a complaint against a decision pursuant to para. 7 and 8. This complaint has to be filed to the Higher Regional Court within 14 days. A complaint filed in time against the execution of a confiscation order has suspensory effect.
(10) The procedure described in § 408 para. 1 StPO shall be applied once the court decision has become final and enforceable. 
(11) If the court decides that the execution is not admitted, the office of public prosecution has to report to the Federal Ministry of Justice by transmitting a copy of the court decision and the confiscation order.
Subdivision Two
Execution of Confiscation Orders of the Member States Denmark and Ireland
Prerequisites
§ 52a. An order relating to property rights, issued with final and enforceable effect by a court of Denmark or Ireland (§ 2 item 11), shall be executed in accordance with the provisions of the present subdivision.
Inadmissible Executions
§ 52a1. (1) It shall be inadmissible for an Austrian court to execute orders relating to property rights,
	1.	if the offence underlying the order relating to property rights or – in the case of money laundering pursuant to § 165 StGB the preceding offence 
	a.	was committed in Austria or on board of an Austria vessel or aircraft, or
	b.	outside the national territory of the deciding State if – under Austrian law – offences of this kind committed outside the national territory would not fall within the scope of Austrian criminal law;
	2.	if a final and enforceable order relating to property rights was already imposed upon the person concerned for the offence underlying the order relating to property rights in Austria, or a final order relating to property rights was issued by another State and has already been executed;
	3.	if the offence underlying the order relating to property rights is not punishable by a court according to Austrian law, unless the offence can be assigned to one of the categories of offences listed in Annex 1, Part A; the classification made by the deciding State is binding with the proviso of § 52c para. 2 item 3;
	4.	if enforceability has lapsed according to Austrian law of the order relating to property rights, which is based on an offence that falls within the scope of Austrian criminal laws;
	5.	if the person concerned has been granted amnesty or pardon in Austria or the deciding State;
	6.	if execution were to violate provisions on immunity;
	7.	if the rights of innocent third parties oppose execution;
	8.	if the order relating to property rights has been issued in absentia, unless the person concerned in accordance with the procedural law of the deciding State
	a)	has been informed of the time and place of the trial leading to the order relating to property rights on time and by personal summons and has been informed that the order relating to property rights can be decided in absentia;
	b)	aware of the date set for the trial has entrusted a lawyer selected by him or her or appointed by the court with his or her representation in the trial and actually was represented by this lawyer in the trial; or
	c)	after service of the order relating to property rights issued in absentia and after being instructed on the right to request a review of the judgment or to appeal against the decision and in this way achieve that the facts are evaluated again, also taking into account new evidence, in his or her presence and to achieve that the decision is set aside,
	aa)	explicitly declared not to request a review of the judgment or to appeal against the decision; or
	bb)	has not requested a review of the judgment or appealed against the decision within the existing time limits.
	9.	if the order relating to property rights comprises an expanded collection which it would not be possible to impose according to § 20b StGB;
	10.	if there are objective indications that the decision was taken in violation of fundamental rights or essential legal principles in accordance with Article 6 of Treaty on European Union, especially if the order relating to property rights was issued for the purpose of punishing the person concerned for reasons of his/her sex, race, religion, ethnic origin, nationality, language, political conviction or sexual orientation and the person concerned did not have any possibility to claim this circumstance before the European Court of Human Rights or before the Court of the European Union.
(2) In matters relating to levies, taxes, customs duties and currency issues, execution of an order relating to property rights must not be refused on the ground that Austrian law does not require payment of equivalent levies or taxes, or does not contain any provisions on levies, taxes, customs duties and currency issues that are equivalent to those under the law of the deciding State.
Competences
§ 52b. § 52 para. 3 and 4 shall be applied. If the court that was seized with the execution does not have jurisdiction, it shall transfer the matter to the competent court.
Procedure
§ 52c. (1) Execution requires that
	1.	the decision to be executed and
	2.	the certificate (Annex V) to be signed by the competent authority and – unless the deciding State submitted a statement to the effect that, as an executing State, it will also accept certificates in the German language (§ 52k para. 2) – their translations into the German language
are forwarded to the Austrian court.
(2) If
	1.	the certificate was not forwarded, is incomplete in major parts or is in obvious contradiction to the order relating to property rights,
	2.	there are indications that one of the reasons listed in § 52a1 para. 1 items 1, 2, and 7 to 10 applies, rendering execution inadmissible,
	3.	the legal classification as an offence according to Annex I, Part A, is obviously erroneous, or if the person concerned has raised justified objections against it, or
	4.	the person concerned documents that the asset or the object covered by the order relating to property rights has already been collected, that the order relating to property rights which refers to a sum of money has already been partly executed, or that he/she already paid a sum of money on the basis of such a decision,
the authority of the deciding State shall be requested to forward the certificate subsequently, to complete it or to supplement the information within a time period to be fixed; pointing out that execution will be refused altogether or in part if the time limit expires unsuccessfully.
(3) § 14 para. 1 to 5 shall apply to the exchanges between authorities.
(4) If the person concerned by the decision can be summoned in Austria, he/she shall be heard concerning the prerequisites for execution (§ 52a1), concerning the issue of an already performed collection of the asset or the object covered by the order relating to property rights, as well as concerning the amount of the sum to be executed.
Decision
§ 52d. § 52 para. 5 and 7 to 11 shall be applied.
Postponing Execution
§ 52e. (1) The execution of an order relating to property rights shall be postponed
	1.	for as long as no final and enforceable decision has been taken on an admissible complaint;
	2.	if the deciding State also seized other Member States with the execution of the order relating to property rights and the total executed amount might exceed the sum of money fixed in the order relating to property rights;
	3.	for as long as the asset or the object is the basis of proceedings in Austria that may result in an order relating to property rights;
	4.	for as long as the purpose of ongoing investigations may be jeopardized;
	5.	for the time considered necessary by the court for obtaining a translation, at its expense, of the order relating to property rights;
	6.	until the additional information requested from the competent authority of the deciding State has been received.
(2) If there is concern that the asset or the object will no longer be available for the purposes of executing the order relating to property rights, once the reason for as deferral no longer applies, the court shall take all admissible measures, including issuing a temporary injunction according to § 144a StPO, during the period of the deferral.
Orders Relating to Property Rights Issued by Several Member States
§ 52f. If two or several Member States forward orders relating to property rights
	1.	concerning the same object, or
	2.	an asset attributable to the same person concerned, without that person having the means in Austria that suffice for an execution of all decisions,
a decision shall be taken as to which order relating to property rights or which orders relating to property rights shall be executed, giving due consideration to all circumstances, especially whether the asset or the object has already been frozen according to Part Two of Chapter III of the present federal law, to the seriousness of the punishable offences underlying the orders relating to property rights, the place of the offence, the dates at which the orders relating to property rights were issued and the time sequence of their communication.
Proceeds from Execution
§ 52g. (1) Sums of money obtained by executing the order relating to property rights, which are not in excess of EUR 10,000 or the equivalent of that amount, shall accrue to the Federal State. If the sum of money obtained by executing the order relating to property rights is in excess of EUR 10,000, 50% of the amount shall be transferred to the deciding State.
(2) Objects that have been obtained by executing an order relating to property rights shall be sold in keeping with the provisions in § 377 StPO. Para. 1 shall apply to the arrangements concerning the proceeds. If such a procedure cannot be followed, and if the deciding State does not consent to the transfer of the objects, they shall accrue to the Federal State.
(3) Para. 1 and para. 2 shall only be applied if no other agreements have been reached with the deciding State.
(4) Objects that are part of Austria’s cultural heritage shall accrue to the Federal State in any event.
Discontinuing Execution
§ 52h. If the competent authority of the deciding State communicates that the order relating to property rights or its enforceability have been revoked, or that execution is no longer requested for some other reason, execution shall be discontinued.
Informing the Deciding State
§ 52i. The court shall inform the competent authority of the deciding State without delay in the event that
	1.	it transfers the case to the competent court (§ 52b second sentence),
	2.	the sum to be executed has been fixed at an amount which is lower than the amount for which the order relating to property rights was issued (§§ 52d, 52 para. 8),
	3.	execution has been postponed, indicating the reasons and, if possible, the presumed duration of the deferral,
	4.	the decision has been enforced,
	5.	execution is refused in full or in part, indicating the reasons,
	6.	the order relating to property rights cannot be executed because the asset or the object have disappeared, were destroyed, cannot be collected in Austria or cannot be found at the location indicated in the certificate, because the place at which the asset or the object is to be found has not been identified with sufficient precision, or because another order relating to property rights has already been executed concerning the asset or the object (§ 52f), always indicating the reasons.
Costs
§ 52j. The costs incurred by executing a foreign order relating to property rights shall be borne by the Federal State, irrespective of whether they can be collected from the person concerned. If considerable or extraordinary costs have been incurred on account of the collection, a sharing of the costs shall be proposed to the authority of the deciding State, attaching a detailed break-down of the costs.
Subdivision Three
Obtaining Execution in Another Member State
Requesting Another Member State
§ 52k. (1) Whenever there is reason to request another Member State to execute of an order relating to property rights, the court that has taken the first-instance decision must first allow the public prosecutor time to comment and to hear the person concerned, if he/she can be summoned in Austria.
(1a) In relation to the Member States with the exception of Denmark and Ireland the procedure described in Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 shall be applied. If the execution by Denmark or Ireland is to be obtained the further provisions of this subdivision shall be applied.
(2) The court shall forward to the competent authority of the executing State 
	1.	the decision to be executed, complete with a translation, if such a translation was already made for the foreign person concerned in the proceedings in Austria, as well as 
	2.	a completed and signed certificate (Annex V) and, if the executing State did not indicate that it also accepts certificates in the German language, a translation of the certificate into one of the official languages of the executing State or into another language accepted by it.
The Federal Minister of Justice shall proclaim by way of ordinance which Member States accept which official languages.
(3) § 14 para. 1 to 5 shall apply in analogy to the exchanges between the authorities. If the decision and the certificate were not communicated by mail, the competent authority of the executing State shall subsequently be sent by mail, upon its request, a specimen or a certified copy of the decision, as well as the original of the certificate.
Forwarding an Order Relating to Property Rights to Several Executing States
§ 52l. (1) Subject to para. 2 and 3 an order relating to property rights must always be sent to only one executing State in every case.
(2) An order relating to property rights concerning specific objects may be sent to several executing States at the same time if
	1.	there is reason to assume that objects covered by the order relating to property rights are located in several executing States,
	2.	the execution of the order relating to property rights requires measures in several executing States, or
	3.	there is reason to assume that an object covered by the order relating to property rights is located in one or two or several known executing States.
(3) An order relating to property rights issued for an asset may be communicated to several executing States at the same time, if this is required for its collection, especially if the asset was not secured pursuant to the provisions of Part Two of Chapter III of the present federal law, or if the execution by only one executing State will probably not be sufficient to collect the entire amount of money for which the order relating to property rights was issued.
Execution in Austria
§ 52m. The execution proceedings in Austria may be continued, even though the order relating to property rights was communicated to one or several executing States. However, the total amount obtained by way of executing the decision on the collection of amount of money must not exceed the amount indicated in the decision.
Informing the Executing State
§ 52n. The court that took the first-instance decision shall inform the competent authority of the executing State without delay if
	1.	in the event of a risk of execution in excess of the order relating to property rights issued for an amount of money, that risk has ceased,
	2.	the decision was executed in full or in part in Austria or in another executing State, possibly indicating the amount which has not yet been collected by execution,
	3.	the person concerned already paid an amount of money, as a result of the order relating to property rights,
	4.	the order relating to property rights or its enforceability was subsequently lifted or modified, or if the execution is no longer requested for other reasons.”
Part Four
Enforcement of Pecuniary Sanctions
Subdivision One
Enforcement of Decisions Taken by Other Member States
Prerequisites
§ 53. (1) A final and enforceable decision taken by a court of another Member State issued for a pecuniary sanction (para. 3), due to an offence punishable by court pursuant to the law of that State, shall be enforced in accordance with the provisions of the present Part Four.
(2) The following shall be considered to decisions pursuant to para. 1:
	1.	the decision of another judicial authority, especially of a public prosecutor, if the person concerned was given the opportunity of bringing the matter before a court that also has criminal-law competences, as well as
	2.	the decision of a court that also has criminal-law competences which was seized with an appeal against a decision that was taken by another than a judicial authority for a punishable act, administrative trespass or breach of an administrative regulation in keeping with the law of the deciding State.
(3) A pecuniary sanction shall be
	1.	financial penalties,
	2.	an obligation imposed by the same decision to pay compensation to the victim, if the victim did not have the possibility to submit civil-law claims in the course of the proceedings and the court took action by exercising its criminal-law competences,
	3.	the obligation to refund the costs of the proceedings leading to the decision, or
	4.	an obligation imposed in the same decision to pay an amount of money into a public account or to an organization supporting victims.
Orders relating to property rights as well as court decisions on private-law claims shall not be considered to be pecuniary sanctions (§ 2 item 11).
Inadmissible Enforcements
§ 53a. It shall be inadmissible for an Austrian court to enforce the decision of another Member State which imposes a pecuniary sanction,
	1.	if the pecuniary sanction is less than the amount of EUR 70 or its equivalent,
	2.	if the offence underlying the decision
	a)	was committed in Austria or on board of an Austrian vessel or aircraft; or
	b)	was committed outside the national territory of the deciding State, whenever, according to Austrian law, offences of that type committed outside the national territory would not come under the scope of Austrian criminal laws,
	3.	if a final and enforceable decision in Austria or a final and already enforced decision in another State was issued against the person concerned for the offence underlying the decision,
	4.	if the offence underlying the decision is punishable neither by a court nor as an administrative offence pursuant to Austrian law, unless the offence can be assigned to one of the categories of punishable offences and administrative offences that are listed in Annex 1, Part A or Part B; the classification made by the deciding State shall be binding with the proviso of § 53c para. 3 item 3;
	5.	if the offence underlying the decision was committed by a person who was below the age of criminal responsibility under Austrian law at the time of the offence,
	6.	if enforcement of the offence underlying the decision, which comes under the scope of Austrian criminal law, has become time-barred pursuant to Austrian law;
	7.	if the person concerned has been granted amnesty or has been pardoned in Austria or the deciding State;
	8.	whenever enforcement were to violate provisions on immunity,
	9.	if the decision was issued in written proceedings and the person concerned was not informed in person or through a representative authorized under the law of the deciding State of the possible and existing legal remedies and the deadlines applicable to them,
	10.	if the decision has been taken in absentia, unless the person concerned in accordance with the procedural law of the deciding State
	a)	has been informed of the time and place of the trial leading to the decision on time and by personal summons and has been informed that the decision can be taken in absentia;
	b)	aware of the date set for the trial has entrusted a lawyer selected by him or her or appointed by the court with his or her representation in the trial and actually was represented by this lawyer in the trial; or
	c)	after service of the decision taken in absentia and after being instructed on the right to request a review of the judgment or to appeal against the decision and in this way achieve that the facts are evaluated again, also taking into consideration new evidence, in his or her presence and to achieve that the decision is set aside,
	aa.	explicitly declared not to request a review of the judgment or to appeal against the decision; or
	bb.	has not requested a review of the judgment or appealed against the decision within the existing time limits.
	10a.	if the decision has been taken in absentia, unless the person concerned has explicitly declared to waive the right to an oral hearing and to appeal against the decision after being informed on the proceedings and on his or her possibility to be present in such trial.
	11.	if there are objective indications that, when taking the decision, fundamental rights or essential legal principles, as defined in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union were violated, especially pecuniary sanctions for the purpose of punishing the person concerned for reasons of his/her sex, race, religion, ethnic origin, nationality, language, political conviction or sexual orientation, and if the person concerned did not have any possibility to claim these circumstances before the European Court of Human Rights or before the Court of the European Union.
Competences
§ 53b. (1) The regional court with subject-matter competences is the competent authority to decide on the enforcement of a decision imposing a pecuniary sanction.
(2) The venue shall be determined by the domicile or the residence of the person who is the subject of the pecuniary sanction; in the event of an association (§ 1 para. 2 and 3 VbVG, venue shall be determined by the registered office or the place of operation or the residence of the association. If these locations cannot be determined, the place shall be decisive where the assets are located concerning which the decision is to be executed. If the competences of a specific court cannot be determined on the basis of the present provisions, the Regional Court for Criminal Matters Vienna shall have jurisdiction.
(3) If the court that has been seized with enforcement is not the competent authority, it shall forward the matter to the competent court.
(4) If the decision imposing a pecuniary sanction is not a decision pursuant to § 53 para. 1 or 2, the matter shall be forwarded to the competent district administrative authority or – on the territory of a community for which the regional police directorate is at the same time the security authority of first instance – the regional police directorate.
Procedure
§ 53c. (1) Execution shall require that 
	1.	the decision to be enforced and
	2.	the certificate (Annex VI), signed by the competent authority, and – in the event that the deciding State did not make any statement that, as an executing State, it will also accept certificates in German (§ 53k para. 2) – its translation into the German language
is communicated to the Austrian court.
(2) If the authority of the deciding State has classified the underlying criminal offence as belonging to the categories indicated in Annex I, Part B, item 7, the certificate shall contain the detailed circumstances of the offence, the applied domestic legal provisions and that provision of the legal act issued on the basis of the Treaty establishing the European Communities or the Treaty on European Union, which are transposed by domestic legal stipulations.
(3) If
	1.	the certificate was not communicated, is incomplete in essential sections, or obviously contradicts the decision,
	2.	there are indications that one of the reasons applies which are listed in § 53a, items 6, 9, 10 and 11, rendering enforcement inadmissible,
	3.	the legal classification as an offence pursuant to Annex I, Part A or B is obviously erroneous, or the person concerned has raised justified objections against it, or
	4.	the person concerned documents that the pecuniary sanction has been paid or collected in full or in part,
the authority of the deciding State shall be requested to subsequently submit the certificate, to complete it or to provide supplementing information, for which acts a reasonable period of time shall be set, together with the indication that enforcement will be refused in full or in part if the period of time expires without any reaction.
(4) § 14 item 1 to 5 shall be applied in analogy to the exchanges between the authorities.
(5) The person concerned shall be heard on the requirements for enforcement (§ 53, § 53a), on the amount of the sum to be executed (§ 53d para. 2), and on the amount of the daily rates applicable to the prison term in lieu of payment, if they have not yet been determined in the decision to be enforced, if he/she can be summoned in Austria.
Decision
§ 53d. (1) A decision shall be taken on enforcement. The decision shall indicate the name of the authority, the decision of which is to be enforced, its file number, a short statement of the facts, including the time and place of the offence, the name of the punishable offence, as well as the legal provisions of the deciding State that were applied.
(2) If enforcement is accepted, the amount to be executed in Austria shall be fixed as that amount which was imposed by the decision to be enforced. If the amount is not in Euros, it shall be converted, using the exchange rate applicable on the day on which the decision on enforcement is taken. However, the amount to be executed shall be reduced to the maximum amount admissible under Austrian law, if the offence underlying the decision was committed outside the national territory of the deciding State and comes under the scope of application of the Austrian criminal law. Previously made payments and collected amounts shall be taken into account.
(3) If the prison term in lieu of payment of the fine has not already been fixed in the decision to be enforced, which imposes a financial penalty, but if the certificate indicates that imprisonment in lieu of payment of the fine is admissible pursuant to the law of the deciding State, a prison term in lieu of payment of the fine shall be fixed in the decision on enforcement for the event that the financial penalty cannot be collected. The prison term shall be determined by the period of time that corresponds to the number of daily rates (§ 19 para. 3 StGB) which would have to be fixed for the offence according to Austrian law, or which otherwise would have to be fixed in keeping with Austrian law, but it must not exceed any maximum period of time indicated in the certificate.
(4) The public prosecutor and the person concerned shall have the right to filing a complaint against the decision to the Superior Regional Court within 14 days. A complaint by the person concerned, which is filed in time, has suspense effect.
(5) § 409 StPO shall be applied once the decision has become final and enforceable.
(6) If enforcement was refused on account of the reason given in § 53a item 11, the competent public prosecutor shall report this to the Federal Ministry of Justice, attaching a copy of the decision.
Postponing Enforcement
§ 53e. (1) The enforcement of a decision which imposes a pecuniary sanction shall be postponed
	1.	as long as no final and enforceable decision has been taken on an admissible complaint (§ 53d para. 4);
	2.	for the period of time which the court deems necessary in order to produce a translation of the decision at the court’s costs;
	3.	until the supplementary information requested from the authority of the deciding State has been received.
(2) During the period of the deferral all admissible measures shall be taken in order to prevent that the amount of money to be collected is no longer available for the purpose of enforcing the decision, once the reason for the deferral no longer applies.
Proceeds from Enforcement
§ 53f. The proceeds from enforcement shall accrue to the Federal State, unless an arrangement to a different effect has been reached with the deciding State.
Imprisonment in lieu of a Pecuniary Sanction
§ 53g. If a financial penalty cannot be collected, enforcement of the imprisonment in lieu of payment of the fine shall be ordered, which has been fixed in the decision to be enforced or in the decision on enforcement (§ 53d para. 3).
Discontinuing Enforcement
§ 53h. If the competent authority of the deciding State communicates that the decision imposing a pecuniary sanction or its enforceability have been lifted, or that enforcement is no longer requested for some other reason, enforcement shall be discontinued.
Informing the Deciding State
§ 53i. The court shall immediately bring to the attention of the competent authority of the deciding State if
	1.	it transfers the matter to the competent court or the competent territorial administrative authority or – on the territory of a community for which the regional police directorate is at the same time the security authority of first instance – the regional police directorate (§ 53b para. 3 and 4),
	2.	the amount to be executed is lower than the amount fixed in the decision (§ 53 para. 2),
	3.	a prison term in lieu of payment of the fine is fixed and its enforcement is ordered (§ 53g),
	4.	a decision has been enforced,
	5.	enforcement is denied in full or in part, indicating the reasons,
	6.	the decision cannot be enforced in Austria due to reasons of un-collectability.
Costs
§ 53j. The costs accruing when enforcing a foreign decision imposing a pecuniary sanction shall be borne by the Federal State, irrespective of whether they can be collected from the person concerned or not.
Subdivision Two
Obtaining Enforcement in Another Member State
Requesting Another Member State
§ 53k. (1) If there are reasons to request another Member State to enforce a court decision which imposed a pecuniary sanction (§ 53 para. 2), the regional court shall first afford the public prosecutor the opportunity to comment and to hear the person concerned, if he/she can be summoned in Austria. 
(2) The court shall communicate to the competent authority of the executing State 
	1.	the decision to be enforced, complete with a translation, if such a translation was already made for the foreign person concerned in the proceedings in Austria, as well as 
	2.	a completed and signed certificate (Annex VI) and, unless the executing State indicated that it also accepts certificates in the German language, a translation of the certificate into one of the official languages of the executing State or into another language accepted by it.
The Federal Minister of Justice shall proclaim by way of ordinance which Member States accept which official languages.
(3) § 14 para. 1 to 5 shall apply in analogy to the exchanges between the authorities. If the decision and the certificate were not communicated by mail, the competent authority of the executing State shall subsequently be sent by mail, upon its request, a specimen or a certified copy of the decision, as well as the original of the certificate.
(4) It shall be inadmissible to request more than one Member State with the enforcement at the same time.
Withdrawal of the request
§ 53l. The court shall immediately inform the competent authority of the executing State if
	1.	the person concerned already paid an amount of money as a result of the decision which imposed the pecuniary sanction,
	2.	the decision imposing the pecuniary sanction or its enforceability are subsequently lifted, modified, or the amount of the pecuniary sanction is reduced, or
	3.	execution is no longer requested for other reasons.
Enforcement in Austria
§ 53m. (1) If a Member State was requested to enforce a sentence, it shall be inadmissible to enforce the sentence in Austria.
(2) However, the enforcement procedure may be continued
	1.	after the competent authority of the executing State has been informed that enforcement is no longer requested,
	2.	if a pardon or amnesty in the executing State has resulted in the discontinuation of enforcement,
	3.	if enforcement in the executing State is not possible in the absence of collectability, or
	4.	if the executing State refuses enforcement, unless the refusal was supported by the reason listed in § 53a, item 3.
Chapter IV
European Investigation Order, Legal Assistance and other Cooperation in Criminal Matters
Part One
European Investigation Order
Subdivision One 
Executing a European Investigation Order
Prerequisites
§ 55. (1) A European Investigation Order issued by another Member State except Denmark or Ireland shall be executed pursuant to the provisions of this subsection.
(2) This subsection shall not be applicable to:
	1.	establishing joint investigation teams (§§ 60 et seqq. and § 76),
	2.	servicing procedural documents (Section 75),
	3.	obtaining criminal records of nationals of other Member States (§§ 77 et seqq.), and
	4.	crossborder persecution and observation, if it involves police measures (§ 1, para. 2, item 2 Police Cooperation Act- PolKG);
(3) If the proceedings in the issuing State are not conducted by a justice authority, a European Investigation Order can only be executed, if a court can be seised against the decision of the issuing authority and the Investigation Order has been approved by a judicial authority of the issuing State.
Inadmissibility of Execution 
§ 55a. (1) The execution of a European Investigation Order is inadmissible, if:
	1.	subject to the reservation of para. 2 the underlying action is not punishable by a court under Austrian law; for fiscal crimes § 12 shall apply mutatis mutandis;
	2.	if it relates to a criminal act which was allegedly committed outside the territory of the issuing State and entirely or partially in Austria or onboard an Austrian ship or aircraft, and such action is not punishable by a court under Austrian law;
	3.	if the principle of ne bis in idem, i.e. that a person may not be prosecuted or punished twice for the same crime, would be violated (Art. 54 Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement – hereinafter CISA), unless there is an underlying application by the accused asking to conduct certain investigation measures or taking certain evidence in the proceedings before the issuing authority;
	4.	if under Austrian law investigation measures may only be ordered for the purpose of clarifying certain designated criminal actions, or such actions the commission of which is subject to a legally specified punishment and the criminal action underlying the European Investigation Order does not meet such requirements unless it involves an investigation measure mentioned in § 55b, para. 2;
	5.	if its provisions are contrary to immunity;
	6.	if it would be detrimental to essential national security interests, endanger sources of information or require the use of classified information about intelligence activities;
	7.	if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the recognised principles as set out in Art. 6 of the Treaty on European Union or the rights granted by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union would be infringed upon;
	8.	if the right of a person as mentioned in § 155, para. 1, item 1 and § 157, para. 1, items 2 to 5 StPO, to refuse to give evidence would be circumvented, unless the person entitled to refuse giving evidence is a suspect in the proceedings of the issuing authority;
	9.	if the requirements of § 55 para. 3 – subject to the reservation of § 55d para. 2 item 1 – have not been met;
	10.	if in the case of a European Investigation Order for the purpose of transferring a person in custody such transfer from Austria is likely to prolong the custody;
	11.	if the suspect has not agreed to be interrogated by technical means of audio and video transmission in the case of a European Investigation Order for such purpose or if the European Investigation Order is aimed at interrogating the suspect by telephone conference;
	12.	if in the case of a European Investigation Order for the purpose of a controlled delivery the requirements of § 99, para. 4 StPO have not been met;
	13.	if in the case of a European Investigation Order for the purpose of an observation, a surveillance of communication or an optical or acoustic surveillance of persons such surveillance would not have been approved in a comparable domestic case.
(2) Double criminality pursuant to paragraph 1, subparagraph 1 shall not be  examined, if
	1.	the action underlying the European Investigation Order has been classified by the issuing authority into one of the crime categories mentioned in Annex I, Part A and is punishable under the law of the issuing State with a prison sentence of a minimum of three years, or with a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty of the same duration, with such classification by the issuing authority being binding, subject to the reservation of § 55d, para. 2, item 2; or
	2.	if it involves a measure as mentioned in § 55b, para. 2.
Reverting to another Investigation Measure 
§ 55b. (1) The European Investigation Order shall be executed by reverting to a measure other than that mentioned in such order,
	1.	if interference with the rights of persons caused by its execution is not explicitly provided by law (§ 5, para. 1 StPO), or if such execution would be otherwise impermissible on the basis of § 55a, para. 1, item 4, or
	2.	if the execution of such other measure would infringe upon the rights of the person involved in a lesser degree and could achieve the same results than was intended by the measure mentioned in the European Investigation Order.
(2) Reverting to another measure, as mentioned in para. 1, item 1 shall be excluded in the following cases:
	1.	when transmitting investigation results or evidence obtained or recorded during domestic criminal proceedings;
	2.	when transmitting information derived from public databases or from databases directly accessible by the police or judicial authorities in criminal proceedings;
	3.	when interrogating parties in criminal proceedings, victims, witnesses or court-appointed experts;
	4.	when carrying out measures not involving coercion against the person concerned;
	5.	when providing information about master and access data pursuant to § 76a StPO.
(3) If in the case of para. 1, item 1 no measure exists which can produce the same result as when executing the measure mentioned in the European Investigation Order, the issuing authority shall be informed, that it was not possible to execute the European Investigation Order.
Jurisdiction
§ 55c. (1) Proceedings executing a European Investigation Order shall be handled by the public prosecution office in whose jurisdiction the requested measure shall be executed.
(2) A European Investigation Order aimed at crossborder observation or  controlled delivery shall be handled by the public prosecution office, in whose jurisdiction the border will probably be crossed, or from whose jurisdiction the observation or controlled delivery shall be initiated; in the case of an observation in an aircraft flying to Austria, however, the public prosecution office in whose jurisdiction the aircraft shall touch down. Information (Annex XIX) shall be provided by the public prosecution office in whose jurisdiction the person observed was staying, is staying or will be staying during the observation. If no appropriate jurisdiction can be ascertained, the Public Prosecutor’s Office Vienna shall have jurisdiction.
(3) If the European Investigation Order is aimed at transmitting information about the main trial or about the execution of the penalty pronounced or the execution of a preventive measure, the trial court shall have jurisdiction. The same applies to the submission of files or the carrying out of interrogations if an indictment has already been raised in the domestic proceedings and the execution of the European Investigation Order is connected with such domestic proceedings. In this case, the execution shall be decided upon by a judge sitting as single judge (§ 31, para. 1, item 1 StPO).
(4) The decision about executing a European Investigation Order as mentioned in § 55g, paragraph 1 shall be incumbent upon a judge sitting as single judge at the court designated in § 16 Correction Service Act, otherwise upon the court which ordered the detention.
(5) If an action is underlying the European Investigation Order, which pursuant to domestic legal provisions is deemed an administrative misdemeanour falling in the jurisdiction of an administrative authority, or a financial misdemeanour under the jurisdiction of the financial crime authorities, the proceedings shall be transferred to the authority competent pursuant to domestic legislation.
Procedure
§ 55d. (1) For the execution of a European Investigation Order a signed and if necessary approved (§ 55 para. 3) certificate (Annex XVII) and, unless the issuing State has declared to accept as executing State also certificates in the German language (§ 56, para. 3), the translation of such certificate into the German language is necessary.
(2) If
	1.	the certificate is incomplete, contradictory, obviously incorrect or not approved by the judicial authorities of the issuing State (§ 55 para. 3),
	2.	if the legal classification of the crime according to Annex I, Part A is obviously faulty or the suspect has raised justified objections against such classification,
the issuing authority shall be requested to submit or complete the missing documents or to provide complementary information within a reasonable deadline.
(3) If there are indications for the reasons mentioned in § 55a, para. 1, items 3, 5 to 8 to exist or if it is deemed appropriate to first execute other measures than those mentioned in the European Investigation Order, the issuing authority shall be informed and by way of consultations best efforts shall be used to accomplish the purpose of the Investigation Order as far as possible.
(4) Before proceeding pursuant to § 55b para. 1, the issuing authority shall be given an opportunity to voice their opinion.	
(5) If the execution of a European Investigation Order is prevented by existing immunity, lifting of which falls into domestic jurisdiction, the necessary applications according to the conditions laid down shall be submitted, and the European Investigation Order shall be executed after the immunity has been lifted.
(6) A request for executing a European Investigation Order, which requires procedures deviating from Austrian law, shall be fulfilled unless such procedures would violate essential domestic legal principles.
(7) If the public prosecution office receives a notification (Annex XIX), and if the reasons mentioned in § 55a, para. 1, items 1 to 5, 8 and 13 exist, it shall inform the issuing authority within 96 hours, that the surveillance of communication cannot be carried out or must be terminated, and that the results of surveilance of communication already gathered must not be used.
(8) § 14, para. 1 to 5 shall be applied to the procedure mutatis mutandis.
Decision on the Execution 
§ 55e. (1) If pursuant to the StPO provisions execution of a measure contained in the European Investigation Order requires an order issued by the public prosecution office, such order shall contain:	
	1.	the data mentioned in § 102, para. 2, items 1, 2 and 4 StPO,
	2.	a description of the measures to be taken,
	3.	a justification for the admissiblity of execution,
	4.	a copy of the European Investigation Order.	
(2) If necessary, the public prosecution office shall submit the applications necessary pursuant to §§ 104, 10 StPO for a court decision to execute the requested measures or to approve or authorise coercive measures.
(3) Inasmuch as the court in proceedings about the application of the public prosecution office according to para. 2 should deem it necessary on legal or factual grounds to proceed pursuant to § 55d, para. 2 to 5, or to obtain further information from the issuing authority, it shall order the public prosecution office to proceed pursuant to § 55d, para. 2 to 5 or to obtain such further information.
(4) The legal remedies provided for by domestic legislation are available against a decision taken by the public prosecution office to execute the European Investigation Order, against the court decision and against rights violations in the course of executing the measure. But the reasons for issuing a European Investigation Order can only be examined in the issuing State.
(5) The execution of a European Investigation Order must be decided upon within 30 days at the least. If such deadline cannot be met, it shall be prolonged by another 30 days. But if a preliminary measure is to be executed to prevent that articles which could serve as evidence are destroyed, altered, removed, transferred or sold, a decision on execution shall be taken within 24 hours, if possible.
Execution
§ 55f. (1) The measures contained in the European Investigation Order shall be executed without delay, but no later than within 90 days, and any requests by the issuing authority demanding different timing shall be taken into consideration as far as possible.
(2) The execution of a measure contained in the European Investigation Order shall be postponed, as long as
	1.	it would endanger the purpose of current investigations, or
	2.	the evidence is required in domestic criminal proceedings.
Transfer of Persons in Custody 
§ 55g. (1) If a European Investigation Order is to be executed which is aimed at transferring a person who is being detained in Austria in remand or penal custody or by a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty to the issuing State for the purpose of carrying out certain procedural actions the competent court (§ 55c, para. 4), after hearing the detainee and if necessary his/her legal representative shall conclude a written agreement (para. 3) with the competent authority of the issuing State.
(2) If a European Investigation Order is to be executed which is aimed at transferring to Austria for the purpose of carrying out certain procedural actions a person who is being detained in the issuing State, the competent public prosecution office (§ 55c para. 1) shall conclude a written agreement (para. 3) with the competent authority of the issuing State.
(3) The agreement shall contain at least:
	1.	the description of the procedural actions for the purpose of which the transfer shall take place;
	2.	the obligation to early return the person after conducting the procedural actions;
	3.	a time limit upon expiry of which the person in custody must be returned in any case, unless a prolongation of the transfer has been agreed upon prior to such expiry;
	4.	the obligation to keep the transferred person in continued custody and only release such person upon order issued by the competent authority, as well as the obligation not to deprive such transferred person of his/her liberty after release on the basis of a decision in the issuing State, subject to the reservation of the cases mentioned in para. 6, items 1 and 2 or subject to his/her consent;
	5.	a provision that the transfer shall not interrupt the correctional term or the term of the preventive measure, and that the time spent in custody during transfer shall be calculated against the duration of the custody or the preventive measures;
	6.	a provision that all costs connected with the transfer shall be borne by the issuing State.
(4) The transfer shall not interrupt the correctional term or the term of the preventive measure.
(5) A release from custody or from the preventive measure of the person transferred to Austria (para. 2) is ruled out unless decided by the competent authority in the issuing State.
(6) A person transferred to Austria (para. 2) may not be prosecuted nor subjected to a prison term, or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty in Austria for a punishable act committed prior to his/her transfer (principle of speciality) unless such person
	1.	did not leave Austria within 15 days after release, although he/she could and was allowed to do so, or 
	2.	left Austria and voluntarily returned.
(7) If the release from custody or preventive measure in Austria of a person transferred to the issuing State (para. 1) is ordered, the competent authority of the issuing State shall be requested to release the person without delay.
(8) §§ 32, 34 and 35 shall apply to transits mutatis mutandis.
Interrogation by Technical Means for Audio and Video Transmissions or by Telephone Conference 
§ 55h. (1) Prior to the interrogation, the identity of the person to be interrogated shall be confirmed. The person shall be instructed about his/her rights according to Austrian law and according to the law of the issuing State.
(2) The interrogation shall be conducted or supervised by an organ of the issuing authority according to their legislation. During the interrogation, the public prosecution office shall monitor the observance of essential domestic legal principles, and shall if necessary without delay take measures to guarantee their observance.
(3) The executing authority shall generate a protocol containing data about date and location of the interrogation, about the identity of the person interrogated, about the question whether the person was sworn in, about the identity and function of all other persons participating in the interrogation and about the technical conditions of the interrogation.	
(4) If testimony is refused in spite of an obligation to testify or if the testimony was false, domestic legal provisions apply.
Execution of a Controlled Delivery 
§ 55i. Controlled delivery through, into or from Austria shall be organised and run by Austrian authorities in such a way, that access to the suspected or the goods is always possible.
Information Obligations
§ 55j. The issuing authority shall be informed in the manner specified in § 14, para. 3:
	1.	without delay, but no later than within a week, of receipt and, in the case of lack of jurisdiction pursuant to § 55c, of having redirected a European Investigation Order by using the certificate in Annex XVIII;
	2.	of any inability to comply with the formalities set forth in the European Investigation Order (§ 55d para. 6);
	3.	without delay of a refusal to entirely or partly execute the European Investigation Order, indicating the grounds or by enclosing the court decision by which the approval of the European Investigation Order was cancelled (§ 55d para. 6);
	4.	of a course of action pursuant to § 55a;
	5.	without delay of a postponement of execution, indicating the grounds and if possible the probable duration of such postponement (§ 55, para. 2);
	6.	without delay of ending the postponement of execution;
	7.	of non-compliance with the deadlines set forth in § 55a para. 5 and § 55f, para. 1, indicating the grounds, and of not being able to keep a specific date of execution laid down by the issuing authority; in the latter case a new date of executing the measure shall be agreed upon with the issuing authority;	
	8.	of the levying of a legal remedy against executing the European Investigation Order.
Participation of Foreign Bodies and Persons involved in the Proceedings in the Execution 
§ 55k. (1) The presence of foreign bodies and of other persons involved in the proceedings and their legal counsellors during the execution of the measure set forth in the European Investigation Order shall be approved by the competent public prosecution office upon request by the issuing authority unless essential procedural principles are being violated.
(2) It shall not be permitted for bodies of the issuing State to undertake independent investigations or procedural actions in Austria. The foreign bodies shall be bound to comply with Austrian legal regulations. The execution of the measure set forth in the European Investigation Order shall be headed by an Austrian authority. Undercover investigators from abroad shall work exclusively under guidance and supervisions by the Federal Ministry of the Interior (Federal Bureau of Criminal Investigation).
(3) During deployment in Austria pursuant to this federal act and in keeping with intergovernmental agreements, public officials from other Member States shall be treated on equal terms with Austrian public officials with regard to crimes committed against them or with regard to crimes they themselves have committed.
(4) If public officials from another Member State are deployed on Austrian territory pursuant to this federal act, such Member State shall compensate for any damages caused by such officials during their deployment, in accordance with Austrian law, in particular in accordance with the provisions of the Public Liability Act, Federal Law Gazette No. 20/1949.
(5) If the damage was caused on Austrian territory, the Republic of Austria shall compensate for such damage, as if it had been caused by Austrian public officials. Claims for damages shall be regulated by the Public Liability Act.
(6) The other Member State whose public officials caused the damage on Austrian territory shall refund to the Republic of Austria the entire sum of damages which was paid to the damaged parties or to their legal successors.
(7) Regardless of the exercise of their rights against third parties and with the exception of para. 4, the other Member State and the Republic of Austria in the case of para. 2 shall refrain from raising claims for the sum of the damages against third Member States.
Transmission of Investigation Results and Evidence 
§ 55l. (1) Investigation results and evidence obtained by executing the European Investigation Order shall be transmitted without delay to the issuing authority or to one of its agents unless the European Investigation Order set forth that they should remain in Austria.	
(2) Contrary to the provisions of paragraph 1, in the case of interrogation by technical means of audio and video transmissions or by way of telephone conference, the protocol (§ 55h para. 3) shall be transmitted to the issuing authority.
(3) In the case of surveillance of communication (§ 134 item 3, § 135 para. 3 StPO) the results (§ 134 item 5 StPO) shall be transmitted to the issuing authority under the condition that such results may not be used in other proceedings for another punishable act than the one mentioned in the European Investigation Order, unless prior consent is given.
(4) In the case of § 55e para. 4 the court competent for deciding about the legal remedy (§ 31 para. 1 item 3, § 33 para. 1 item 1 StPO) – unless a complaint according to the law has suspensory effect anyway – shall upon request or ex officio postpone the transmission until a decision about the legal remedy has been taken, unless the urgency of the proceedings conducted by the issuing authority or the protection of subjective rights in these proceedings outweigh the interest in legal protection. The transmission shall, in any case, be postponed if such transmission would seriously and irrecoverably violate the rights of the person concerned.
(5) If necessary, the issuing authority shall be invited, with an appropriate deadline being set which could be extended upon justified request by the issuing authority, to return the evidence after having used it. If the issuing authority has stated, that the investigation results or the evidence should remain in the country, an appropriate duration for such safekeeping in the country shall be agreed upon, which could be extended upon justified request by the issuing authority.
Costs
§ 55m. (1) The costs accrued in Austria by executing the measure contained in the European Investigation Order shall be borne by the Federation.
(2) Contrary to para. 1, the issuing State shall bear the costs of transmitting the results of surveillance of communication in audio-visual or written form.
(3) Should there be indications that the costs of executing a measure contained in the European Investigation Order would be exorbitantly high, the issuing authority shall be contacted for the purpose of sharing such costs. The issuing authority shall be informed about the part of the costs, which is deemed exorbitantly high. If no agreement can be reached, the issuing authority shall be invited, with an appropriate deadline being set, to bear a part of the costs, failing which it must be assumed that the European Investigation Order with respect to this measure is being cancelled.
Subdivision Two 
Obtaining the Execution of a European Investigation Order
Engaging another Member State 
§ 56. (1) If investigation measures are ordered in criminal proceedings which have to be executed in another Member State except for Denmark or Ireland, if evidence must be taken, if the transmission of investigation results or if the transfer of a person in custody must be obtained, a European Investigation Order can be issued. In such case it has to be taken into consideration whether the involvement of another Member State is proportionate in relation to the seriousness of the criminal act, the severity of guilt, the consequences of the criminal act, the degree of suspicion and the desired result. § 55 para. 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(2) In investigation proceedings, a European Investigation Order shall be issued by the public prosecution office and shall require no court approval. In the case of the court taking evidence (§ 104 StPO) or after an indictment has been raised, the European Investigation Order shall be issued by the competent court.
(3) The executing authority shall be provided with a completed and signed certificate (Annex XVII) and, unless the executing State has agreed to also accept certificates in the German language, with a translation of such certificate into the official language of the executing State or into another language accepted by such State. The Federal Minister for Constitutional Affairs, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice shall announce by a decree which Member States accept which official languages.
(4) If the European Investigation Order has been issued for the purpose of transferring a person in Austrian custody, the judge sitting singly at the court designated in § 16 Correction Service Act, otherwise the court which had ordered the custody, shall conclude a written agreement pursuant to § 55g para. 3 with the executing authority. In the case of a transfer of a person in custody in another Member State, such agreement shall be concluded by the public prosecution office. To the European Investigation Order for transferring a person in Austrian custody shall be enclosed the consent declaration of such person and if necessary, the statement of his/her legal representative. After releasing such person from custody upon request of the authority of the executing State, a detention or a measure involving deprivation of liberty in Austria for the action mentioned in the European Investigation Order may only be justified by the circumstances mentioned in § 55g, para. 6, items 1 and 2, or with the consent of the person transferred. § 36 and § 55g para. 4 to 8 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(5) Issuing a European Investigation Order for the purpose of interrogating a suspected or accused person by telephone conference is not permitted.
(6) If the surveillance of communication of a person residing in the executing State can be performed without technical assistance pursuant to § 138, para. 3 StPO, the executing authority shall be provided with a completed and signed notification (Annex XIX) and, unless the executing State has agreed to also accept notifications in the German language, with a translation of such notification into the official language of the executing State or into another language accepted by such State, namely
	1.	prior to performing the surveillance, if it is known that the targeted person is staying in the executing State or will travel there during the surveillance;
	2.	during or after a surveillance, if it becomes known after the date mentioned in item 1 that the targeted person is staying in the executing State.
(7) § 14 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to business communications. If the European Investigation Order has not been received by mail, the original order shall be provided to the executing authority by mail upon their request at a later stage.
Information
§ 56a. The executing authority shall be notified if an objection for violating a law pursuant to § 106 StPO has been raised, a complaint has been levied pursuant to § 87 StPO against the measure contained in the European Investigation Order, if it was cancelled or if the execution of the European Investigation Order is no longer required for other reasons.
Retrospective Inadmissibility in the Executing State 
§ 56b. Results already transmitted and obtained by an investigation measure pursuant to Part Five and Part Six, Chapter 8 StPO (§§ 134 to 143) shall be destroyed, if the execution of the European Investigation Order or the execution of the measure contained therein has been retrospectively declared impermissible in the executing State. The same applies if the executing authority in the case of § 56, para. 6, item 2 has provided the information that the surveillance has been terminated.
Part Two
Judicial Assistance and other Cooperation in Criminal Matters
Subdivision One
Principles
Prerequisites
§ 57. (1) The provision of the present Part shall apply only to the extent that bilateral agreements, which are applicable directly, do not stipulate otherwise.
(2) Upon a request by an authority of a Member State and subject to the application of Part One of this Chapter, judicial assistance may be provided for the following proceedings:
	1.	in criminal matters, also if a legal entity may be held responsible for the acts in the requesting State, including proceedings to order preventive measures, to stay pronouncement of a sentence, to suspend or to interrupt the enforcement of a punishment or preventive measure, for a conditional release and for pronouncing an order under property law;
	2.	in proceedings for acts that are punished as administrative trespasses or administrative offences, provided that there may also be recourse to a court with criminal-law competences against a decision by the competent authority; the same also applies to acts for which a legal entity may be held responsible in the requesting Member State;
	3.	for the service of documents in proceedings;
	4.	in civil matters that are connected to an indictment, as long as the criminal court has not yet taken a final decision on the indictment;
	5.	in matters of criminal record, including clearance of a criminal record,
	6.	in proceedings on compensation for measures of criminal prosecution, criminal-court confinement and unjustified conviction;
	7.	in parole matters and in matters relating to the enforcement of punishments or measures.
(3) For the purposes of para. 2 courts, public prosecutors or administrative authorities, the decisions of which can be appealed to a court having also competences for criminal matters, as well as authorities dealing with the enforcement of punishments of measures shall be deemed to be the appropriate authorities.
(4) §§ 55c, 55e para. 1 to 4 and 55k shall be applied analogously.
Consent to the Forwarding of Data and Results of Investigations by Security Authorities or by Financial Crime Authorities
§ 57a. (1) The office of public prosecution (para. 5) shall authorise an Austrian security authority or a financial crime authority on its request to forward data or other results of national criminal proceedings that have been reported to the office of public prosecution (§ 100 StPO) to the competent securitiy authority or financial crime authority of another Member State on its request without a judicial letter of request or a European Investigation Order if this is admissible pursuant to § 76 para. 4 StPO.
(2) (Note: Para. 2 repealed by Federal Law Gazette I No. 175/2013)
(3) The forwarding shall also be authorised if there is no request by a security authority or financial crime authority of another Member State if due to specific circumstances it can be assumed that the prosecution of a criminal act of considerable importance assignable to one of the categories of criminal acts listed in Annex I.A can be facilitated or the commitment of such criminal act can be prevented.
(4) The office of public prosecution shall give its consent that the data or investigation results forwarded may be used as evidence in criminal proceedings in the requesting Member State together with the authorisation. For data or other results from national criminal proceedings that have been obtained by investigations and takings of evidence that require the authorisation of a court or can only be ordered and executed by a court this consent can only be given following a formal request for judicial assistance of a judicial authority or a European Investigation Order.
(5) The office of public prosecution in whose area of competence the criminal proceedings in which the investigations were conducted, is or was pending, is competent for the authorisation. 




Subdivision Two
Avoiding Parallel Proceedings
Informing the Judicial Authority of Another Member State of National Proceedings
§ 59a. (1) If criminal proceedings are pending in Austria against a certain person because of a criminal act and if there is reason to assume that in another Member State with the exception of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland there are criminal proceedings pending against the same person because of the same criminal act (parallel proceedings), the office of public prosecution has to inform the competent judicial authority of the other Member State unless it is already aware of the proceedings in Austria.
(2) The notice has at least to contain:
	1.	time, date and the circumstances of the act,
	2.	the name of the suspect and the victims and other personal details or useful information concerning that,
	3.	state of the proceedings,
	4.	the information whether the suspect is in detention or not and
	5.	the name of the office of public prosecution
(3) This notice has to be provided in one of the official languages of the other Member State unless such State has declared to accept notices also in the German language.
Answering the Notice of a Judicial Authority of Another Member State
§ 59b. If the office of public prosecution receives a notice of a judicial authority of another Member State – which has to be translated into the German language unless this Member State has declared to accept notices also in the German language – about criminal proceedings pending in this State, it has to answer without delay or within the time limit set whether parallel proceedings are pending or were pending. In addition, it has to provide at least the following information:
	1.	time, place and other circumstances of the act that partly or completely is covered by the parallel proceedings in Austria,
	2.	information on the State of the proceedings and
	3.	name of the office of public prosecution
If an answer without delay or within the time limit set is not possible, the requesting authority has to be informed of the reasons for the delay and the time frame within which the information will be provided. § 59a para. 3 is applicable.
Initiation of Consultations
§ 59c. (1) If the application of § 59a or § 59b shows that parallel proceedings are pending in another Member State the office of public prosecution has to initiate consultations with the competent judicial authority of the other Member State with the aim of by either taking over prosecution (§ 60 ARHG) or by requesting to take over prosecution (§ 74 ARHG) guaranteeing an efficient way of dealing with the case and avoiding the negative consequences of parallel proceedings. If it is not possible to reach an agreement, Eurojust can be asked for assistance.
(2) Until the consultations are terminated the office of prosecution has to inform the judicial authority of the other Member State of the relevant steps of the proceedings, especially to transmit decisions terminating the proceedings and to provide additional information if so requested, unless Austrian security interests or the safety of persons would be jeopardized. In any case the other authority has to be informed of the result of the proceedings.
Subdivision Three
Forming Joint Investigation Teams
General Prerequisites
§ 60. (1) Joint investigation teams, which perform criminal-law investigations, are formed by way of special agreement between the competent authorities of two or several Member States for a specific purpose or for a specific period of time. The purpose, duration and composition of the joint investigation team may be amended with the consent of all Member States involved.
(2) A joint investigating team may be formed, in particular, if
	1.	in investigating proceedings of a Member State difficult and complicated investigations need to be carried to clear up criminal acts that are linked to investigations in other Member States;
	2.	some Member States are carrying out investigations to clear up criminal offences that require a coordinated and synchronized approach by the Member States involved on account of the underlying facts.
(3) The request to form a joint investigation team may be made by every Member State and shall contain the data listed in the form sheet attached as Annex IV.
Forming Joint Investigation Teams in Austria
§ 61. (1) If, in the course of criminal proceedings in Austria, it proves to be necessary to form a joint investigation team (§ 60 para. 2), and if investigations are to be conducted in Austria in which the involvement of officials from other Member States is appropriate and meaningful, the public prosecutor may propose – by way of direct exchanges between the authorities – to the judicial authorities concerned of the other Member States to form a joint investigation team  This proposal shall also be forwarded to the competent Austrian security authority which may propose further members. In addition, the director of the public prosecutor’s offices and the national member delegated to Eurojust shall be informed of the request.
(2) The public prosecutor shall decide on a request by a Member State to form a joint investigation team.
(3) The public prosecutor shall direct a joint investigation team operating in Austria and support it in organizational terms. Its competences shall be determined by the provisions on criminal proceedings that are applicable in Austria.
(4) Persons who are not representatives of the competent authorities of a Member State shall be allowed to participate in a joint investigation team in Austria if all members of the joint investigation team agree, and if all other prerequisites for the performance of judicial assistance or the execution of a European Investigation Order in the presence of these persons are met. The head of the team may exclude foreign officials from attending specific investigating acts if their presence were to considerably hamper their performance, or if this were to jeopardize their success.
(5) The public prosecutor shall report orders to form a joint investigation team in Austria, as well as its results to the Federal Ministry of Justice, enclosing a presentation of the underlying facts of the case.
(6) § 14 para. 1 to 5 shall be applied analogously to communication between authorities.
Exchange of Information
§ 62. (1) The information obtained in Austria by a joint investigation team may be used by the authorities of the Member States involved to the extent that it may also have been obtained by way of judicial assistance or by the execution of a European Investigation Order.
(2) Unless the legal provisions of that State in which the joint investigation team became operative do not provide otherwise, the Austrian member may use the information obtained lawfully abroad, to which the Austrian judicial authorities do not have access otherwise, only for the purposes for which the team was formed, as well as to ward off an immediate and serious danger to public safety and security.
(3) The consent of that Member State, in which the information was obtained, shall be obtained in advance if the Austrian member is to use the information for other purposes and proceedings than the ones indicated in paragraph (2).
Subdivision Four
Eurojust
Implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/1727
§ 63. This subdivision serves the implementeation of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1727.
National Member
§ 64. (1) The Federal Minister of Justice shall delegate a national member and a deputy member and an assistant to Eurojust (§ 39a of the 1979 Service Regulations for Civil Servants Act, Federal Law Gazette No. 333/1979). 
(2) In complying with his/her duties the national member, the deputy member and the assistant shall be subject to the specific orders of the Federal Minister of Justice and the senior public prosecutor’s offices, the deputy member and the assistant in addition also to these of the national member.
(3) The national member executes his/her duties pursuant to Article 8 para. 1, 3 and 4 of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 in the framework of the competences and tasks of the offices of public prosecution as provided for in the StPO. If the national member makes a proposition pursuant to Article 8 para. 5 of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 the court or the offices of public prosecution immediately have to deal with this proposition.
(4) The national member has access to the Austrian applications for automated data processing to the extent necessary for the tasks of the offices of public prosecution.To this extent processed data can be transmitted to the national member or requested by him/her.
(Note: Para. 5 to 7 repealed by Art. 4 item 36, Federal Law Gazette I No. 20/2020)
Further Transmission of person-related data by Eurojust
§ 65. The competent judicial authority can consent to the further transmission of person-related data (Art. 47 para. 5 of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1727) that has been transmitted by an Austrian judicial authority.
Request to Eurojust
§ 66. In the course of domestic criminal proceedings, an Austrian judicial authority may contact the national member, by way of direct exchanges between authorities, and request support, provided that Eurojust has competences in the matter. Security authorities shall address their request through the competent judicial authority.
Information Obligations
§ 67. (1) The information obligations provided for in Article 21 of the Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 have to be exercised by the offices public prosecution during the investigation proceedings and after the formal indictment by the court.
(2) The national correspondent for Eurojust for terrorism matters (§ 68a para. 1 item 3) has to inform Eurojust of the initiation and the type of termination of criminal proceedings as well as of the formal indictment because of criminal acts pursuant to §§ 278b to 278g and 282a StGB if at least one other Member State is affected or could be affected. The communication to Eurojust has to contain at least data to indentify the suspect, the association and the terrorist organisation, details of the criminal act and the facts of the case and if possible also data on European Investigation Orders or requests of judicical assistance that have been transmitted to or received from another Member State, plus their results.
(3) If the time limits provided for in § 20 para. 4 and § 21 para. 2 can not be complied with due to extraordinary reasons the office of public prosecution has to inform the national member stating such reasons.
Eurojust National Coordination System
§ 68a. (1) The following contact points shall participate in the Eurojust national coordination system:
	1.	the national correspondent for Eurojust set up within the Federal Ministry of Justice,
	2.	the national correspondent for the European Judicial Network set up within the Federal Ministry of Justice and the further EJN contact points established in the districts of the senior offices of public prosecution (§ 70),
	3.	the national correspondent for Eurojust for terrorism matters set up in the Federal Ministry of Justice,
	4.	the national contact point for the Network of Joint Investigation Teams set up in the Federal Ministry of Justice,
	5.	the contact point set up within the Federal Ministry of Justice by Council Decision 2002/494/JHA setting up a European network of contact points in respect of persons responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, Official Journal L 2002/167, 1,
	6.	the contact point set up within the Federal Investigation Bureau by Council Decision 2007/845/JHA concerning the cooperation between asset recovery offices of the Member States in the field of tracing and identification of proceeds from, or other property related to crime, Official Journal L 2008/301, 3, and
	7.	the contact points set up within the Central Office of Public Prosecution for the Prosecution of Economic Crime and Corruption (§ 20a StPO) and within the Federal Office for the Prevention of and Fight against Corruption by Council Decision 2008/852/JHA concerning a contact-point network against corruption, Official Journal L 2008/301, 38.
Subdivision Five
European Judicial Network
Tasks and Objectives
§ 69. The European Judicial Network (EJN) shall serve to facilitate the direct exchange of information between authorities and the cooperation between judicial authorities of the Member States by active intermediary services and establishing direct contacts by involving the competent contact authorities of other Member States. The EJN consists of the contact points designated by the Member States. Apart from this the tasks, composition and functioning of the EJN result from Council Decision 2008/976/JHA on the European Judicial Network, Official Journal L 2008/348, 130.
Setting up Contact Points
§ 70. (1) Contact points of the European Judicial Network shall be set up with the public prosecutors at the seat of the senior public prosecution office and with the Federal Ministry of Justice. 
(2) The senior public prosecution offices shall notify public prosecutors to the Federal Ministry of Justice who are qualified to fulfil the tasks of a contact point. The Federal Ministry of Justice shall inform the European Judicial Network of the nominations of Austrian contact points.
(3) The courts and the public prosecutors shall support the contact points in their work and shall use the contact points in order to facilitate judicial cooperation, especially in obtaining brief information on foreign legal issues, as well as information about the progress of foreign criminal proceedings and judicial assistance procedures, to the extent that it was not possible to obtain such information from the foreign authority in question by way of direct exchanges of information between authorities.
Subdivision Six
Controlled Deliveries
General Principles
§ 71. Controlled deliveries are transports of goods from, into or through the national territory,  provided that the public prosecutor would be entitled to proceed pursuant to § 99 para. 4 StPO.
Competences and Procedure
§ 72. (1) The public prosecutor for the court district, in which the border will probably be crossed or from which a controlled delivery will originate, shall be responsible for decisions on a controlled delivery through Austria. If there are no indications concerning the location of the planned border crossing, the responsibility lies with the public prosecution office in Vienna. The criminal police shall inform the competent public prosecutor without delay of the planned controlled delivery.
(2) Upon a request by a Member State or in agreement with another Member State a controlled delivery through Austria or from Austria to another Member State shall be granted if
	1.	the reasons underlying the controlled delivery or the foreign criminal proceedings meet the prerequisites for issuing a European arrest warrant, and
	2.	the controlled delivery will promote the clearing up of such offences or the exploration of a person who is involved in committing the offences in more than a subordinate position.
(3) A controlled delivery shall not be granted if
	1.	it might cause a serious risk to the life, health, physical integrity or freedom of a person, on account of the special properties of the goods or the group of offenders,
	2.	it were to violate § 5 para. 3 StPO, or
	3.	the further surveillance of the transport, as well as access to it does not appear to be secured in the other State.
(4) A controlled delivery through or from the national territory shall be accepted and directed by the Austrian authorities. It shall be designed in such a manner that access to the suspects and the goods is possible at any time. The performance of a controlled delivery by or accompanied by officials shall only be granted when the principles of § 5 para. 3 StPO are observed.
(5) After completing the controlled delivery, the public prosecutor shall examine whether there is reason to request the State in which the suspects were apprehended to take over the conduct of a criminal prosecution.
Subdivision Seven
Undercover Investigations
Prerequisites
§ 73. (1) The deployment of an official of a Member State operating under cover or under a false identity in Austria shall only be admissible on the basis of an order, issued in advance of such an operation by the public prosecutor responsible for the area in which the operation is planned to start, and only on the basis of a request by a judicial authority of a Member State, which has granted this deployment in the course of previously launched criminal proceedings or preliminary investigations.
(2) The deployment of a foreign undercover investigator in Austria shall be ordered if
	1.	the offences underlying the foreign criminal proceedings comply with the prerequisites for issuing a European arrest warrant, and
	2.	if there were no chances of clearing up the offences, or if their clarification were seriously complicated without the planned investigating operations.
(3) The deployment may only be ordered for that period of time that is probably required to reach its purpose, at the most, though, for one month. Issuing a new authorization is only admissible if the prerequisites continue to apply, and if it can be presumed, on the basis of certain facts, that the continued operation will be successful. As soon as the prerequisites for a continued operation no longer apply, or the purpose of the investigating operations is no longer obtained, or is likely not to be obtained, the deployment shall be ended immediately.
Conducting Undercover Investigations
§ 74. (1) The foreign undercover investigator shall be exclusively directed and monitored by the Federal Ministry of the Interior (Federal Office of Criminal Investigations). The public prosecutor shall communicate the order authorizing an undercover investigation to this authority pursuant to the provisions of the Ordinance on Classified Information, Federal Law Gazette II No. 256/1998, shall be communicated to this authority.
(2) The undercover investigator shall only act on the basis of Austrian legal provisions. He shall observe the principles of lawfulness and proportionality (§ 5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure). Any provocation of acts (§ 5 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure) shall be inadmissible. The further details concerning the deployment of an undercover investigator shall be determined in close cooperation with the requesting authority and shall be included in the order by the public prosecutor authorizing the operation. Just like the information and messages that are obtained by way of the undercover investigation, these details must be laid down in a report (§ 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure) or an official memo (§ 95 of the Code of Criminal Procedure).
(3) The undercover investigator shall have the right to collect information and to establish contacts to the suspects or other persons in their environment. If further offences are being suspected in the course of conducting the undercover investigations, the undercover investigator shall report (§ 2 (1), § 78 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure) these, as soon as possible, to the authority directing the operation, giving, however, due consideration to his own security and the progress of the investigations . The results of the investigations obtained by the operation shall be recorded in a report, which shall be communicated to the public prosecutor ordering the operation. The report shall also list in what fictitious transactions the undercover investigator engaged.
(4) The provisions of §§ 131 (2), last sentence, (4) and § 132 of the Code of Criminal Procedure shall apply to foreign undercover investigators who are criminal-police officers (§ 129 item 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure).
(Note: Para. 5 repealed by Federal Law Gazette I Nr. 112/2007)
Part Three
Special Forms of Cooperation
Subdivision One
Service of Process Documents
§ 75. (1) Process documents and other documents by courts or public prosecutors shall be served directly by mail upon persons staying on the national territory of Member States.
(2) The judicial authorities may only perform a service of documents in the requested Member State if 
	1.	the address of the recipient is unknown or not known precisely,
	2.	the provisions on the service of documents require another evidence on the service of documents upon the recipient than that provided by bilateral postal exchanges,
	3.	the service of documents was not possible by mail, or
	4.	there are justified reasons to presume that service by mail will not obtain the desired result, or is unsuited.
(3) If there are indications that the recipient of the service of documents is not familiar with the language in which the document is written, the document or at least its essential content shall be translated into the language, or one of the languages of the Member State on the national territory of which the recipient is staying. However, if the court or the public prosecutor knows that the recipient is only familiar with one other language, then the document or at least its essential content shall be translated into that language.
(4) Whenever no information on legal remedies is attached to the document to be served, the document or an enclosed note shall refer to the place in which the served person will obtain information, at his/her request, about his/her rights and obligations in connection with the service of documents.
Subdivision Two
Requests to Form Joint Investigation Teams
§ 76. (1) If investigations need to be undertaken in one or several Member States in the course of domestic criminal proceedings, which give rise to forming a joint investigation team, the public prosecutor may request the competent judicial authorities of those Member States to form a joint investigation team, in accordance with § 60 para. 2.
(2) Austrian judicial authorities may participate in a joint investigation team formed in another Member State, if the underlying criminal offence also carries a court punishment under Austrian law, and participating in the investigation helps to clear up an offence falling under the application of Austrian laws.
(3) The public prosecutor shall report to the Federal Ministry of Justice, enclosing a presentation of the facts of the underlying case, about the result of participating in the team.
(4) § 14 para. 1 to 5 shall be applied analogously to communication between authorities.
Subdivision Three
Obtaining Criminal Records of Nationals of other Member States
Prerequisites
§ 77. If in Austrian criminal proceedings information from the criminal records concerning a national of another Member State is required, the central authority of this Member State shall be requested to forward the information under the provisions of this Subdivision. 
Content and Form of the Request
§ 78. (1) Requests on the forwarding of information from the criminal records shall be presented using the standard form in Annex IX of this federal law and shall contain the information required therein.
(2) Requests on the forwarding of information from the criminal records shall be in the or in one of the official language(s) of the Member State requested.
(3) If Member States accept requests on the forwarding of information from the criminal records also in other languages apart from the official language(s), the Federal Ministry of Justice has to announce this by ordinance.
Means of Communication
§ 79. (1) Requests on the forwarding of information from the criminal records under this federal law shall be forwarded via the Strafregisteramt der Landespolizeidirektion Wien (= regional police directorate).
(2) Article 13 together with Article 15 of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters from 20. April 1959, published in Federal Law Gazette No. 41/1969, shall remain unchanged.
Conditions for using person- related data
§ 80. Person-related data obtained under the provisions of this subdivision shall only be used for the purpose of the criminal proceedings for which they were requested. 
Chapter V
Supervision of Judicial Decisions
Part One
Supervision of Decisions on Probation Measures and Alternative Sanctions and Subsequent Decisions
Subdivision One
Supervision of Decisions of Other Member States
Prerequisites
§ 81. (1) If regarding a person sentenced in another Member State with the exception of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, who lives or permanently resides in Austria and already has returned to Austria or wants to return to Austria, in the judgment or in another decision by an authority based on a judgment a conditional sentence has been imposed or a conditional release from a prison sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty has been granted or a probation measure or an alternative sanction has been imposed, on request of the issuing State Austria has to supervise that the sentenced person complies with such order in accordance with the provisions of this subdivision.
(2) Probation measures and alternative sanctions as indicated in para. 1 are:
	1.	an obligation for the sentenced person to inform the competent authority of any change of residence or place of work;
	2.	an obligation for the sentenced person not to enter certain localities, places or defined areas;
	3.	a limitation of the right to leave the territory of the executing State;
	4.	 instructions relating to behaviour, residence, the education and training or leisure activities of the sentenced person or containing limitations or modalities of carrying out a professional activity;
	5.	an obligation to report at specified times to a specified authority;
	6.	an obligation to avoid contact with specific persons;
	7.	an obligation to avoid contact with specific objects which were used by the sentenced person to commit the criminal act or could be used to commit a criminal act;
	8.	an obligation to compensate financially for the prejudice caused by the offence and/or an obligation to provide proof of compliance with such obligation;
	9.	an obligation to carry out community service;
	10.	an obligation to cooperate with a probation officer or a representative of a social service having responsibilities in respect of sentenced persons and
	11.	an obligation to undergo therapeutic treatment or treatment for addiction.
Inadmissibility of Supervision
§ 82. (1) The supervision of probation measures or alternative sanctions is not admitted
	1.	if the sentenced person is not living or permanently residing in Austria;
	2.	if the decision does not contain any of the probation measures or alternative sanctions indicated in § 81 para. 2;
	3.	if a final and binding decision on the act on which the decision is based, has already been taken against the sentenced person in Austria or in another State;
	4.	if the act on which the decision is based is not punishable by the courts according to Austrian law, unless the act can be assigned to one of the criminal acts indicated in the categories of Annex I, part A. The assignment of the issuing State is binding subject to § 84 para. 2 item 3;
	5.	 if the enforcement of the sentence which refers to an act for which the Austrian criminal laws are applicable, is statute-barred according to Austrian law;
	6.	 as far as the sentenced person has been granted an amnesty or pardon in Austria or in the issuing State;
	7.	 as far as the supervision of the probation measure or the alternative sanction would violated provisions on immunity;
	8.	 if the criminal act on which the decision is based, has been committed by a person who according to Austrian law had not yet reached the age of criminal responsibility at the time of the commission of the act;
	9.	 if the decision has been taken in absentia of the sentenced person unless the certificate states that such person in accordance with the procedural provisions of the issuing State
	a)	was summoned personally on time or otherwise actually informed of the time and place of the proceedings which resulted in the judgment being rendered in absentia and was instructed on the fact that the decision can be taken in absentia; or
	b)	having knowledge of the scheduled hearing entrusted a defence council selected by himself/herself or the court with his/her representation in the hearing and actually was represented in this hearing; or
	c)	after having been served the decision in absentia and after instruction on the right to apply for a renewal of the proceedings or to contest the decision and by such way obtain a new examination of the facts of the case also considering new means of evidence in his/her presence and a suspension of the decision,
	aa)	explicitly has declared not to apply for a renewal of the proceedings or not to file an appeal; or
	bb)	within the existing time limits has not applied for a renewal of the proceedings or filed an appeal;
	10.	if the probation measure includes medical/therapeutic treatment which, even considering the possibility for adaptation provided for in § 87, cannot be supervised in Austria;
	11.	if the duration of the probation measure or alternative sanction is less than six months;
	12.	if there are objective indications that the decision has been taken violating fundamental rights or principles within the meaning of Art. 6 of the Treaty on the European Union, especially that the decision has been taken for purposes of punishing the sentenced person due to reasons of sex, race, religion, ethnic origin, nationality, language, political conviction or sexual orientation and the sentenced person did not have the possibility to present these circumstances to the European Court of Human Rights or the Court of the European Union.
(2) If the sentenced person does not live or permanently reside in Austria, responsibility for supervision can still be assumed on request of the competent authority of the issuing State if due to certain facts the sentenced person has ties to Austria of such intensity that it can be assumed that supervision in Austria serves the facilitation of resocialisation and reintegration of the sentenced person in the society.
(3) In the cases of para. 1 item 4 responsibility for supervision can also be assumed explicitly refusing to assume responsibility for decisions according to § 90 para. 1 items 2 to 4 after having reached an agreement with the competent authority of the issuing State.
(4) In matters relating to taxes, duties, customs or exchange supervision may not be refused on the grounds that Austrian law does not provide for the same kind of tax or duty or contain the same type of rules as regards taxes or duties, customs and exchange regulations as the law of the issuing State.
Jurisdiction
§ 83. (1) The Landesgericht (Regional Court) is competent for decisions on the supervision of probation measures and alternative sanctions and subsequent decisions. If the extent of the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving a deprivation of liberty to be enforced in the case of a subsequent decision according to § 90 para. 1 items 2 to 4 is at least five years, the Landesgericht decides as senate of three judges (§ 31 para. 6 StPO).
(2) Local jurisdiction follows the place where the sentenced person lives or permanently resides, in the cases of § 82 para. 2 the place to which the special ties of the sentenced person exist.
(3) If the court, that has been requested to assume responsibility for supervision, does not have jurisdiction, it has to delegate the matter to the competent court and to inform the competent authority of the issuing State of such delegation.
Procedure
§ 84. (1) In order to assume responsibility for supervision it is necessary that the Austrian court receives
	1.	the judgment or other decision to be supervised; and
	2.	the certificate signed by the competent authority (Annex X) and, if the issuing State has not declared to accept certificates also in the German language (§ 95 para. 4 item 2), its translation into the German language.

(2) If
	1.	the certificate is not transmitted, is incomplete regarding essential parts or obviously contradicts the judgment or other decision;
	2.	there are indications that one of the reasons for inadmissibility of supervision according to § 82 para. 1 items 1 to 3 and 9 to 12 apply; or
	3.	the legal assignment as criminal act according to Annex I, Part A is obviously wrong or the sentenced person raised motivated objections against such assignment,
The competent authority of the issuing State has to be requested to transmit the missing certificate, complete the missing parts or send additional information within an appropriate time limit to be determined, with the notice that supervision will be partly or completely refused if the time limit passes without an answer subject to a procedure according to § 82 para. 3.
(3) On request the court has to inform the competent authority of the issuing State immediately after receiving the decision with the certificate according to Annex X on the maximum duration of the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty that would be possible under Austrian law for the criminal act on which the judgment is based in case of a breach of the probation measure.
(4) To exchanges between authorities § 14 para. 1 to 5 shall be applied analogously.
(5) The sentenced person has to be heard regarding the conditions of supervision (§ 81) and the measures to be ordered in Austria.
(6) The competent authority of the issuing State can be consulted any time in order to obtain information for the purpose of establishing the identity and the residence of the sentenced person or to otherwise facilitate the smooth and efficient carrying out of the supervision.
Decision
§ 85. (1) The decision on assuming responsibility for supervision has to be taken in form of a resolution. This resolution has to indicate the denomination of the authority whose decision is supervised, their file number, a short description of the facts of the case including time and place of the criminal act and the probation measures ordered, the denomination of the criminal act and the relevant legal provisions applied by the issuing State. Moreover it has to be established which type of Austrian decision corresponds to the decision taken over and which measures are to be taken in Austria as well as if applicable the duration of the probation measure and the probation period (§ 87).
(2) The office of public prosecution and the persons affected by the resolution have the right to complain against such resolution within 14 days to the Oberlandesgericht (Higher Regional Court). A complaint filed in time has suspensory effect.
(3) After the decision is final and binding the measures necessary for the supervision of the probation measures have to be taken without delay.
Effects of Assuming Responsibility for Supervision
§ 86. After assuming responsibility for supervision all further measures to be taken are governed by Austrian law, subject to the provision of § 91. The supervision of probation measures according to § 81 para. 2 item 8 is carried out in such way that the sentenced person is obliged to provide proof of compliance with the obligation to compensate the financial prejudices caused by the act.
Adaptation of Probation Measures
§ 87. (1) If the type or duration of the probation measure or alternative sanction or the duration of the probation period is contrary to Austrian law it shall be adapted by the court to correspond to the type or duration provided for in Austrian law.
(2) The adapted probation measure and its duration as well as the duration of the adapted probation period has to correspond to the probation measure or alternative sanction or their duration as well as the duration of the original probation period ordered in the issuing State as far as possible. If the duration of the probation measure or probation period ordered in the issuing State exceeds the maximum duration according to Austrian law it has to be determined with the maximum duration provided for in Austrian law.
(3) The adapted probation measure or duration of the probation period must not be more severe or longer than the probation measure or alternative sanction ordered in the issuing State or the probation period established in this State.
Time Limits
§ 88. (1) A decision on assuming responsibility for supervision subject to the provision of § 89 has to be taken within 60 days after the decision with the certificate according to Annex X has been received by the competent court.
(2) If the time limit established in para. 1 cannot be maintained in a specific case the competent authority of the issuing State has to be informed of this by any means, giving the reasons and indicating the estimated time for the final decision to be taken
Postponing the Decision
§ 89. The decision on assuming responsibility for supervision has to be postponed
	1.	until the certificate has been received or completed;
	2.	until the competent authority of the issuing State has sent the requested supplementary information.
Subsequent Decisions in Austria
§ 90. (1) The court, subject to the provision of § 91, has to take all subsequent decisions in connection with the supervision of a probation measure, especially
	1.	the modification of the probation measure or alternative sanction or the  duration of the probation period;
	2.	the revocation of the suspended sentence
	3.	the revocation of the conditional release and
	4.	the subsequent imposition of a custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty (in the case of a conditional sentence).
(2) The competent authority of the issuing State has to be informed of the decisions indicated in para. 1.
Retransfer and Subsequent Decisions in the Issuing State
§ 91. (1) In the case of § 82 para. 1 item 4 and para. 3 as well as in cases where the judgment with which an alternative sanction has been imposed, does not provide for a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty to be enforced in case of non-compliance with the obligations or instructions and the court is of the view that a subsequent decision according to § 90 para. 1 items 2, 3 or 4 needs to be taken, it has to transfer jurisdiction for the supervision back to the competent authority of the issuing State unless §§ 15 and 16 JGG (Jugendgerichtsgesetz - Juvenile Offender’s Act) can be applied analogously.
(2) In the cases of para. 1 the court has to inform the competent authority of the issuing State without delay by any means provided for in § 14 para. 3 by using the form in Annex XI:
	1.	of any breach of the probation measure by the sentenced person;
	2.	of any decision that presumably will lead to the revocation of the suspended  sentence or the conditional release;
	3.	of any decisions that presumably will result in imposing a custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty; and
	4.	of all other circumstances that are relevant for the competent authority of the issuing State for the subsequent decisions.
(3) Responsibility for supervision also has to be transferred back to the competent authority of the issuing State
	1.	if the sentenced person flees, no longer lives or permanently resides in Austria or no longer has ties to Austria within the meaning of § 82 para. 2;
	2.	on request of the competent authority of the issuing State in case new criminal proceedings are pending against the sentenced person in this State.
Information of the Issuing State in all Cases
§ 92. The court has to inform the competent authority of the issuing State by the means indicated in § 14 para. 3 without delay
	1.	of the forwarding of the decision with the certificate according to Annex X to the authority competent for the supervision of the probation measure or alternative sanction;
	2.	of the impossibility of supervision of the probation measure or alternative sanction because the sentenced person cannot be found in Austria after the decision and the certificate according to Annex X have been forwarded. In this case there is no obligation of supervision;
	3.	of the final and binding decision on assuming responsibility for the supervision:
	4.	of the decision that the supervision is not admitted, giving the reasons for such decision;
	5.	of the decision on the adaptation of the probation measures or alternative sanction by giving the reasons for such decision;
	6.	of an amnesty or pardon having been granted to the sentenced person:
	7.	of the compliance with the probation measure or alternative sanction.
Review of the Judgment
§ 93. The issuing State decides on requests for review of the judgment which forms the basis of the decision.
Costs
§ 94. The issuing State cannot be obliged to pay the costs incurred by the supervision of the foreign probation measure or alternative sanction.
Subdivision Two
Requesting Another Member State to Assume Responsibility for Supervision
Request to Another Member State
§ 95. (1) If there is reason to request another Member State with the exception of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to supervise a decision on which one or more probation measures are based because the sentenced person lives or permanently resides in this State and already has returned to or wants to return to this State, the court that has taken the last decision of first instance first has to give the office of public prosecution the opportunity for a statement and to hear the sentenced person.
(2) Probation measures within the meaning of para. 1 are:
	1.	instructions according to § 51 para. 1 and 2 StGB;
	2.	an obligation to cooperate with a probation officer according to § 52 StGB;
	3.	court supervision for sexual delinquents according to § 52a StGB;
	4.	health-related measures according to § 39 SMG;
	5.	an obligation to undergo treatment for addiction, psychotherapeutical or medical treatment or medical supervision (§§ 52 para. 3 StGB, 179a StVG); and
	6.	community service according to §§ 3, 3a StVG.
(3) The conditions under which the Member States on request following an application of the sentenced person notwithstanding the fact that such person does not live or permanently reside in the executing State are ready to assume responsibility for supervision have to be announced by decree of the Federal Minister of Justice.
(4) The court has to transmit to the competent authority of the executing State
	1.	 the decision to be supervised with a translation if such translation has already been produced for the sentenced person in the Austrian proceedings; as well as
	2.	a completed and signed certificate (Annex X) and, unless the executing State has declared to accept certificates also in the German language, a translation into one of the official languages of the executing State or any other language accepted by such State.
The Federal Minister of Justice has to announce by decree which Member States accept which official languages.
(5) If the decision contains a conditional sentence (§ 13 JGG), the court has to request the competent authority of the executing State to indicate the maximum duration of the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty that can be imposed according to the law of the executing State for the criminal act on which the decision is based in case of a breach of the probation measure.
(6) § 14 para. 1 to 5 is applicable analogously to exchanges between authorities. If the decision and the certificate have not been transmitted by mail the competent authority of the executing State on its request has to be sent a certified copy or certified version of the decision as well as the original of the certificate by mail.
(7) Only one Member State at any one time may be requested to assume responsibility for supervision.
Withdrawal of the Certificate
§ 96. At the latest within ten days after having received the information requested according to § 95 para. 5 or the decision on adaptation the court can, as long as supervision in the executing State has not yet started, in case that it regards the adapted probation measure as not satisfying or the maximum duration of the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty that can be imposed in case of a breach of the probation measure as disproportionately low in comparison to the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty to be served according to Austrian law, notify the competent authority of the executing State that the certificate is withdrawn.
Effects of Assuming Responsibility for Supervision
§ 97. After responsibility for supervision has been taken over by the executing State all subsequent decisions are governed by the law of the executing State, subject to the provision of § 98.
Information after Assuming Responsibility for Supervision by the executing State
§ 97a. In the cases listed in § 91 para. 2 the court has to inform the competent authority of the executing State without delay by one of the means indicated in § 14 para. 3.
Retransfer of Supervision
§ 98. If the competent authority of the executing State transfers jurisdiction for supervision back to the Austrian court on the basis of one of the reasons indicated in § 91 para. 1 and 3, this court has to resume jurisdiction for supervision. It has to consider the duration and the extent of compliance with the probation measure by the sentenced person in the executing State and any decision taken in this State according to § 90 para. 1 item 1. The same applies in case the certificate is withdrawn according to § 96.
Information of the Executing State After Retransfer
§ 99. If the supervision has be transferred back to the court (§ 98) the court has to inform the competent authority of the executing State by one of the means indicated in § 14 para. 3 without delay
	1.	of the revocation of the suspended sentence or the conditional release;
	2.	of the decision on the enforcement of the custodial sentence or preventive measure involving deprivation of liberty imposed in the judgment;
	3.	of a sentence imposed subsequentially in case of a conditional sentence;
	4.	of the compliance with the probation measure.
Part Two
Monitoring of Decisions on Supervision Measures
Subdivision One
Monitoring of Decisions of Other Member States
Prerequisites
§ 100. (1) If during pending criminal proceedings in another Member State a decision on the application of supervision measures has been taken against a natural person living or permanently residing in Austria who has agreed to return to Austria after having been instructed on his/her legal rights, by a judicial authority or any authority that according to the law of such Member State is competent for such decision, on request of the issuing State according to the provision of this Part Austria has to secure and supervise that the person concerned complies with such measure. Decisions on issuing arrest orders or any other enforceable decision with the same legal effect have to be taken by a judicial authority.
(2) supervision measures within the meaning of para. 1 are:
	1.	obligation of the person concerned to inform about any change of residence;
	2.	obligation not to enter certain localities, places or defined areas;
	3.	obligation to stay at a defined place at specified times;
	4.	limitation of the right to leave the territory of the executing State;
	5.	obligation to report at specified times to a specific authority;
	6.	obligation to avoid contact with specific persons related to the criminal act(s) in question;
	7.	obligation to provide a security;
	8.	obligation to undergo treatment for addiction or any other medical treatment if the person concerned agrees with such measure;
	9.	temporary confiscation of the vehicle documents;
	10.	provisional cooperation with a probation officer if the person concerned agrees with such measure.
(3) The Federal Minister of Justice has to indicate by decree the competent authorities of the Member States responsible for decisions pursuant to this Part that are not judicial authorities.
Inadmissibility of Monitoring Supervision Measures
§ 101. (1) The monitoring of supervision measures imposed in another Member State is not admitted
	1.	if the person concerned does not live or permanently reside in Austria;
	2.	if the decision is not based on one of the supervision measures indicated in § 100 para. 2;
	3.	if a final decision in Austria or a final decision already enforced in another State has been taken against the person concerned because of the criminal act on which the decision is based;
	4.	if the act on which the decision is based according to Austrian law is not to be punished by the courts unless the act can be assigned to one of the categories of criminal acts indicated in Annex I, Part A. The assignment of the issuing State is binding subject to § 103 para. 2 item 3;
	5.	if the punishability of the act falling under the scope of the Austrian criminal laws is time barred according to Austrian law;
	6.	as far as monitoring the supervision measures would violate provisions on immunity;
	7.	if the person concerned at the time of the criminal act related to which the decision on the application of supervision measures has been taken, had not yet reached the age of criminal responsibility;
	8.	if in the case of a breach of the supervision measure imposed on part of the person concerned the execution of a European arrest warrant would have to be refused;
	9.	if there are objective indications that the decision on the application of supervision measures has been taken in violation of fundamental rights or basic principles within the meaning of Art. 6 of the Treaty on the European Union, especially if the decision has been taken for the purpose of punishing the sentenced person due to reasons of sex, race, religion, ethnic origin, nationality, language, political conviction or sexual orientation and if the person concerned did not have the possibility to state this circumstance before the European Court of Human Rights or the Court of the European Union.
(2) If the person concerned does not live or permanently reside in Austria, responsibility for monitoring supervision measures can still be assumed on request of the competent authority of the issuing State on application of the person concerned if due to determined circumstances the person concerned has ties to Austria of such intensity that it can be assumed that monitoring supervision measures in Austria would serve the facilitation of resocialisation and reintegration of the person concerned into society.
(3) In the cases of para. 1 item 8 responsibility for monitoring supervision measures can still be assumed after having obtained the consent of the competent authority of the issuing State explicitly indicating that in case of a breach of the supervision measures imposed on part of the person concerned the execution of a European arrest warrant would have to be refused.
(4) In relation to taxes or duties, customs and exchange, assuming supervision may not be refused on the grounds that Austrian law does not impose the same kind of tax or duty or does not contain the same type of rules as regards taxes or duties, customs and exchange regulations as the law of the issuing State.
Jurisdiction
§ 102. (1) The Landesgericht (Regional Court) has jurisdiction for deciding on assuming responsibility for the monitoring of a decision on the application of supervision measures.
(2) Local jurisdiction follows the place where the person concerned lives or permanently resides; in the cases of § 101 para. 2 the place to which the person concerned has the special ties.
(3) If the court that has been requested to assume responsibility for monitoring supervision measures is not competent, it forwards the matter to the competent court and informs the competent authority of the issuing State of this.
Procedure
§ 103. (1) The monitoring of supervision measures requires that the Austrian court receives the decision on the application of supervision measures to be monitored and the certificate (Annex XII) signed by the competent authority and, unless the issuing State has declared to accept certificates in the German language as executing State (§ 115 para. 3 item 2), also the translation of these documents into the German language.
(2) If
	1.	the certificate has not been transmitted, is incomplete in essential parts or obviously does not correspond to the decision on the supervision measures;
	2.	there are indications that one of the reasons for inadmissibility of the monitoring of supervision measures pursuant to § 101 para. 1 items 1 to 3 and 9 prevails; or
	3.	the legal qualification as criminal act pursuant to Annex I, Part A is obviously wrong or the person concerned raised reasoned objections against such qualification,
the competent authority of the issuing State has to be requested to transmit the missing parts, complete them or send additional information within a specific time period to be determined, together with the notice, that if the time period passes without compliance monitoring of supervision measures subject to § 101 para. 3 will be partly or completely refused.
(3) § 14 para. 1 to 5 is to be applied analogously to exchanges between authorities.
(4) The person concerned has to be heard to the prerequisites of assuming responsibility for monitoring supervision measures (§ 100) and to the measures to be ordered in Austria.
(5) The competent authority of the issuing State can be consulted at any time in order to obtain information for the purpose of examining the identity and the residence of the person concerned or to facilitate a smooth and efficient execution of monitoring of supervision measures.
Decision
§ 104. (1) The decision on assuming responsibility for monitoring supervision measures has to be taken by resolution. This resolution has to contain the name of the authority whose decision is supervised, their case number, as short statement of the facts of the case including time and place of the act on which the decision is based and the supervision measure imposed, the denomination of the criminal act of which the person concerned is suspected as well as the applied legal provision of the issuing State. Moreover, it has to state which measures are to be taken within Austria.
(2) The office of prosecution and the person concerned can file a complaint against this decision within 14 days at the Oberlandesgericht (Higher Regional Court). A complaint filed in time has suspensory effect.
(3) After the decision is final and binding the measures necessary for the monitoring of the supervision measure have to be taken without delay.
Effect of Assuming Responsibility for Monitoring Supervision Measures
§ 105. After responsibility for monitoring supervision measures has been assumed all further measures subject to the provisions of § 109 are governed by Austrian law. The monitoring of the supervision measures pursuant to § 100 para. 2 item 7 is carried out in such way that the person concerned is obliged to present proof on the security granted.
Adaptation of Supervision Measures
§ 106. (1) If the nature of the supervision measure is incompatible with Austrian law, the court has to adapt it in line with the types of supervision measures provided for in Austrian law.
(2) The adapted supervision measure shall correspond as far as possible to the supervision measure imposed in the issuing State. It shall not be more severe than the supervision measure imposed in the issuing State.
Time Limits
§ 107. (1) The court hast to decide on assuming responsibility for monitoring the supervision measure within 20 working days of receipt of the decision and the certificate pursuant to Annex XII subject to the provision of § 108. In case of a complaint pursuant to § 104 para. 2 this time limit shall be extended by another 20 working days.
(2) If in a specific case it is not possible to comply with the time limit indicated in para. 1 the competent authority of the issuing State has to be informed by any means giving the reasons for the delay and indicating how long it expects to take to issue a final decision.
Postponing the Decision
§ 108. The decision on assuming responsibility for monitoring supervision measures can be postponed until the end of an appropriate time limit to be set for the competent authority of the issuing State in order to
	1.	transmit or complete the certificate;
	2.	receive the additional information requested from the competent authority of the issuing State.
Competence for Subsequent Decisions
§ 109. (1) The competent authority of the issuing State is competent for all subsequent decisions related to a decision on imposing supervision measures. These subsequent decisions include especially
	1.	the renewal, examination and suspension or modification of the decision on imposing supervision measures;
	2.	the modification of the supervision measures; and
	3.	the issuing of a European arrest warrant or any other enforceable decision with equal legal effect.
(2) In the case of a modification of the supervision measures pursuant to para. 1 item 2 the Austrian court has to
	1.	adapt the modified supervision measures, if due to their nature they do not comply with Austrian law (§ 106); or
	2.	refuse the monitoring of the modified supervision measures if they are not indicated in the list of supervision measures of § 100 para. 2.
Request for Information
§ 110. During the monitoring of supervision measures the court can request the competent authority of the issuing State at any time to notify the court whether monitoring is to be continued with respect to the circumstances of the individual case.
Information of the Issuing State
§ 111. The court has to inform the competent authority of the issuing State by the means indicated in § 14 para. 3 without delay
	1.	of the forwarding of the decision on imposing supervision measures with the certificate pursuant to Annex XII to the authority competent for monitoring the supervision measures;
	2.	of the impossibility of monitoring the supervision measures because the person concerned cannot be found in Austria after having received the decision and the certificate pursuant to Annex XII. In this case there is no obligation to monitor the supervision measures;
	3.	of the fact that a complaint has been filed against a decision according to § 104 para. 1;
	4.	of the final and binding decision on assuming responsibility for monitoring supervision measures;
	5.	of the decision that monitoring is not admitted giving the reasons for this decision;
	6.	of the decision on adaptation of the supervision measures giving the reasons for this decision;
	7.	of any change of residence of the person concerned;
	8.	of any breach of the supervision measure imposed and all other circumstances that could lead to a decision pursuant to § 109 para. 1 using the form in Annex XIII;
	9.	of the decision on terminating the monitoring of the supervision measures pursuant to § 112 para. 2, 3 or 4.
Unanswered Notices and Termination of Monitoring of Supervision Measures
§ 112. (1) If the court has transmitted at least two notices pursuant to § 111 item 8 to the competent authority of the issuing State and this authority has not taken a decision pursuant to § 109 para. 1, this authority may be invited to take such decision within a reasonable time limit to be determined.
(2) If the competent authority of the issuing State does not take a decision within this time limit indicated the monitoring of the supervision measures has to be terminated.
(3) After a period of six months after assuming responsibility for monitoring supervision measures the competent authority of the issuing State has to be requested to confirm within an adequate time period to be determined that it is necessary to continue monitoring. Two years after assuming responsibility for monitoring the supervision measures this monitoring has to be terminated in any case.
(4) If the competent authority of the issuing State does neither answer a request according to para. 3 nor another request with the notice that monitoring will be terminated after the time limit passes without answer, the monitoring has to be terminated.
(5) Apart from the cases indicated in para. 2 to 4 monitoring of supervision measures has to be terminated if the competent authority of the issuing State withdraws its certificate (§ 116).
Surrender of the Person Concerned
§ 113. If the competent authority of the issuing State has issued an arrest warrant or any other enforceable decision having the same effect against the person concerned such person has to be surrendered to the issuing State in accordance with the provisions of Part Two and Three of Chapter II.
Costs
§ 114. For the costs incurred by monitoring foreign decisions imposing supervision measures payment cannot be requested from the issuing State.
Subdivision Two
Requesting Another Member State to Assume Responsibility for Monitoring Supervision Measures
Request to Another Member State
§ 115. (1) If there are reasons to request another Member State to assume responsibility for monitoring a decision imposing one or more of the supervision measures indicated in § 100 para. 2 according to § 173 para. 5 StPO or in case the executing State also accepts the monitoring of other supervision measures because the person concerned lives or permanently resides in such Member State and agreed to return to such Member State after having been informed of the supervision measures imposed, the court that has taken the decision in first instance first has to give the office of public prosecution opportunity for a statement and to hear the person concerned.
(2) The Federal Minister of Justice has to indicate by decree
	1.	under which conditions the Member States following a request  on application of the person concerned are  willing to assume responsibility for monitoring supervision measures notwithstanding the fact that the person concerned does not live or permanently reside  in the executing State;
	2.	which Member States also accept the monitoring of other supervision measures than those indicated in § 100 para. 2.
(3) The court has to transmit to the competent authority of the executing State
	1.	the decision to be monitored together with a translation if such translation has already been produced for the person concerned in the Austrian proceedings; as well as
	2.	a certificate (Annex XII) completed and signed, and, unless the executing State has declared to accept certificates also in the German language, a translation of such certificate into one of the official languages of the executing State or any other language accepted by the executing State.
The Federal Minister of Justice has to announce by decree which Member States accept which official languages.
(4) For exchanges between authorities § 14 para. 1 to 5 is to be applied analogously. If the certificate and the decision have not been transmitted by mail, the competent authority of the executing State upon request has to be sent a certified version or certified copy of the decision as well as the original of the certificate by mail.
(5) Only one Member State at any one time can be requested to assume responsibility for monitoring supervision measures.
Withdrawal of the Certificate
§ 116. At the latest ten days after reception of the decision on adaptation or a notice of the competent authority on the maximum duration of monitoring and as long as monitoring in the executing State has not yet started the court can, in the case that it does not consider the adapted supervision measures or the maximum time period during which the supervision measures are monitored to be adequate, inform the competent authority of the executing State that the certificate is withdrawn. The same applies for the case of reception of a notice pursuant to § 101 para. 3.
Request for Continuing the Monitoring of the Supervision Measures
§ 117. After the maximum time period for monitoring the supervision measures as notified by the competent authority of the executing State has lapsed the court can request this authority to continue monitoring for a time period to be indicated by the court if this is deemed necessary considering the circumstances of the case.
Decision on Subsequent Measures
§ 118. After reception of a notice pursuant to § 111 item 8 and based on a request pursuant to § 110 to court has to examine whether there is reason to take a decision according to § 109 para. 1. For this purpose information sent by the competent authority of the executing State on the risk the person concerned might pose to victims and the general public have to be taken into consideration.
Effects of Assuming Responsibility for Monitoring Supervision Measures
§ 119. After the executing State assumes responsibility for monitoring supervision measures all further measures subject to the provision of § 120 are governed by the laws of the executing State.
Continuing the Monitoring of Supervision Measures in Austria
§ 120. (1) In the following cases it is admitted to continue the monitoring of the supervision measures in Austria:
	1.	if the person concerned has moved to a State other than the executing State in order to live or permanently reside there;
	2.	after withdrawal of the certificate pursuant to § 116;
	3.	in the cases of § 109 para. 2 item 2;
	4.	after the maximum time period for monitoring as indicated by the competent authority of the executing State has lapsed if the request for continuing the monitoring of the supervision measures has not been granted by this authority;
	5.	after terminating the monitoring of the supervision measures according to § 112 para. 2, 3 or 4.
(2) In the cases indicated in para. 1 the competent authority of the executing State has to be consulted in order to avoid an interruption of monitoring of the supervision measures if possible.
Information of the Executing State
§ 121. The court has to inform the competent authority of the executing State by means indicated in § 14 para. 3 without delay
	1.	for which additional time period it considers monitoring of the supervision measures necessary; this notice has to be given before the maximum time period for monitoring of the supervision measures as indicated by the competent authority of the executing State ends;
	2.	about any decision pursuant to § 109 para. 1 and if a complaint has been filed against such decision.
Chapter VI
Recognition of European Protection Orders in Criminal Matters
Part One
Recognition of Decisions of Other Member States
Prerequisites
§ 122. (1) If in the course of criminal proceedings pending in another Member State with the exception of Denmark or Ireland a judicial authority or other competent authority has adopted a protection measure for the protection of a natural person who resides or stays in Austria or intends to reside or stay in Austria and on the basis of this protection measure has issued a European protection order such order is recognised in Austria on request of the issuing State pursuant to the provisions of this part and orders that would be admitted according to Austrian law in a comparable case will be adopted for the continuation of the protection of the protected person.
(2) Protection measures within the meaning of para. 1 are:
	1.	a prohibition from entering certain localities, places or defined areas where the protected person resides or visits;
	2.	a prohibition or regulation of contact, in any form, with the protected person, including by phone, electronic or ordinary mail, fax or any other means; and
	3.	a prohibition on approaching the protected person closer than a prescribed distance or an instruction of similar content.
Request of the Protected Person in Austria
§ 123. A request of a protected person to an Austrian court for issuing a European protection order in connection with a protection measure adopted in another Member State has to be transferred to the competent authority of the issuing State without delay.
Inadmissibility of Recognition
§ 124. The recognition of a European protection order is not admitted
	1.	if the prerequisites for recognition and supervision in Austria according to the Chapter V or for recognition and enforcement pursuant to
	a.	Council Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, Official Journal L 2001/12, 1, 
	b.	Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 concerning jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and the matters of parental responsibility, repealing regulation (EC) No.1347/2000, Official Journal L 2003/338, 1,
	c.	the Hague Convention of 19 October 1996 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and co-operation in respect of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children, Federal Law Gazette III No. 49/2011, or
	d.	the Hague Convention of 25 October 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, Federal Law Gazette No. 512, 1988,
prevail;
	2.	if the protected person does not reside or stay in Austria and does not want to move to Austria;
	3.	if the European protection order is not based on one of the protection measures indicated in § 122 para. 2;
	4.	if the protection measure has been adopted in connection with an act that is not punishable by the courts according to Austrian law;
	5.	if the protection measure has been adopted in a judgment that relates to an act that falls within the scope of the Austrian criminal laws and would be covered by an amnesty in Austria;
	6.	as far as the recognition of the European protection order and the adoption of national measures would violate provisions on immunity;
	7.	if the prosecution of the person causing danger for the act in relation to which the protection measure has been adopted is statute-barred under Austrian law when the act falls within the scope of the Austrian criminal laws;
	8.	if the recognition of the European protection order would contravene the ne bis in idem principle;
	9.	if the act on which the protection measure is based, has been committed by a person who at the time of the act according to Austrian law cannot be held criminally responsible because of that person’s age; or
	10.	if there are objective indications that the decisions on the basis of which the protection measure has been adopted was taken in violation of fundamental rights or basic principles within the meaning of Art. 6 of the Treaty on the European Union and the person causing danger did not have the possibility to state these circumstances at the competent authorities of the issuing State, the European Court of Human Rights or the Court of the European Union.
Jurisdiction
§ 125. (1) The Landesgericht (Regional Court) is competent for recognising a European protection order and adopting national measures.
(2) The local jurisdiction follows the place at which the protected person resides or stays or intends to reside or stay.
(3) If the court that has been involved in the recognition is not competent it forwards the case to the competent court and informs the competent authority of the issuing State of such decision.
Procedure
§ 126. (1) It is a prerequisite for the recognition that the Austrian court has received the European protection order (Annex XV) and, unless the issuing State has declared to accept European protection orders as executing State also in the German language (§ 135 para. 1), its translation into the German language.
(2) If the European protection order is incomplete in essential parts or if there are indications that the reason for inadmissibility indicated in § 124 item 10 prevails, the competent authority of the issuing State has to be requested by means indicated in § 14 para. 3 to complete the order within an appropriate time period to be determined with the notice that if that time period lapses without an answer, recognition will be refused. The decision on the recognition of the European protection order shall be postponed until the reception of the requested additional information.
(3) For exchanges between authorities § 14 para. 1 to 5 is to be applied analogously.
(4) The protected person and, if he/she can be summoned in Austria, also the person causing danger, has to be heard regarding the prerequisites for recognition (§ 124). The hearing of the person causing danger can be waived if this would endanger the purpose of the protection.
Decision
§ 127. (1) The decision on recognition has to be taken by resolution. This resolution has to contain the name of the authority whose decision is recognised, their case number, a short statement of the facts including time and place of the act as far as they are known and the protection measure adopted, the denomination of the criminal act and the applied legal provisions indicated by the issuing State. The decision has to be taken considering the urgency of the matter, the previewed time of arrival of the protected person in Austria, insofar as this person does not already reside or stay in Austria and, as far as possible, the danger that confronts the protected person.
(2) Insofar as this is admitted in similar Austrian proceedings, the court after recognition of the European protection order has to give instructions to the person causing danger for an appropriate time period without delay (§ 51 para. 2 StGB) or to apply supervision measures (§ 173 para. 5 item 3 to 5 StPO). These measures or instructions shall, to the highest degree possible, correspond to the protection measure adopted in the issuing State.
(3) Against such decision the office of public prosecution, the protected person and the person causing danger have the right to file a complaint within 14 days at the Oberlandgesgericht (Higher Regional Court).
(4) The monitoring of the instructions or supervision measures as well as the consequences of non-compliance are governed by Austrian law subject to § 130.
Information Obligations of the Executing State
§ 128. (1) The court has to inform the competent authority of the issuing State by means indicated in § 14 para. 3
	1.	of the refusal of recognition of the European protection order giving the reasons;
	2.	of measures pursuant to § 127 para. 2 and the Austrian legal consequences of a breach (§ 129);
	3.	of any breach of measures pursuant to § 127 para. 2 using the form in Annex XVI. As far as the issuing State has not declared to accept forms also in the German language, the form has to be accompanied by a translation into one of the official languages of the issuing State. The Federal Minister of Justice has to indicate by order which Member State accepts which official languages;
	4.	of any breach of the protection measures indicated in the European protection order of which the court has knowledge if an order pursuant to § 127 para. 2 could not be adopted in comparable Austrian proceedings and therefore has not been granted;
	5.	of the decision on suspending the measures (§132) adopted on the basis of the European protection order.
(2) The protected person has to be notified in the cases of para. 1 item 1, 2 and 5, in case of a refusal of the recognition of the European protection order giving an instruction of the possibilities to complain pursuant to § 127 para. 3 and if applicable on the possibility to apply for a protection measure according to Austrian law. In the cases of para. 1 item 2 also the person causing danger has to be informed. Such information must not contain the address or other contact data of the protected person unless these data are necessary in order to fulfil a measure adopted. In the cases of para. 1 item 3 if applicable also the competent authority of the executing State has to be informed pursuant to § 2 item 7 lit. f.
Legal Consequences of a Breach in the Executing State
§ 129. In the case of a breach of one or more measures pursuant to § 127 para. 2 the court
	1.	immediately has to initiate temporary measures in order to stop the breach until the issuing State has taken a decision according to § 130 if applicable, and
	2.	if there is the suspicion of a criminal act within Austria has to inform the competent office of public prosecution.
Jurisdiction of the Issuing State
§ 130. The competent authority of the issuing State is exclusively competent for the following decisions:
	1.	the review, the renewal, the modification, the revocation and withdrawal of the protection measure and consequentially also the European protection order; and
	2.	the imposition of a custodial sentence or a preventive measure involving a deprivation of liberty as a consequence of revoking the protection measure.
Consequences of a Modification of the European Protection Order
§ 131. If the competent authority of the issuing State transmits a modified European protection order ,the court
	1.	has to modify the orders issued on the basis of the European protection order accordingly,
	2.	has to refuse recognition of the modified European protection order if it is not based or no longer based on one of the protection measures indicated in § 122 para. 2, or
	3.	to proceed according to § 126 para. 2.
Suspension of the Measures Adopted
§ 132. (1) The court shall discontinue the measures adopted on the basis of the European protection order if
	1.	there are clear indications that the protected person does not reside or stay in Austria or has left Austrian territory,
	2.	the continuation of the instruction or the supervision measure would no longer be admitted in similar Austrian proceedings,
	3.	the case of § 131 item 2 prevails,
	4.	an Austrian court after recognition of the European protection order receives a decision pursuant to Chapter V or a request for recognition and enforcement of one of the Regulations indicated in § 124 item 1 lit. a or b or one of the conventions indicated in § 124 item 11 lit. c or d, or
	5.	the competent authority of the issuing State revokes the European protection order (§ 130 item 1).
(2) In the cases of para. 1 item 2 the court can request the competent authority of the issuing State prior to discontinuing the adopted measure to transmit information if the protection of the person protected by the European protection order is still required.
Costs
§ 133. The costs incurred by the recognition of a European protection order and the issuing of orders, subject to those costs incurred solely within the territory of the issuing State, have to be paid by the Federal State.
Part Two
Obtaining Recognition in Another Member State
Issuing a European Protection Order
§ 134. (1) If in criminal proceedings a natural person („person causing danger“) has been given instructions pursuant to § 51 para. 2 StGB or supervision measures according to § 173 para. 5 item 3 to 5 StPO have been imposed that correspond to the ones indicated in § 122 para. 2, for the protection of another person („protected person“) from a criminal act against life, physical or psychological integrity, dignity, personal liberty or sexual integrity, the court that has taken the decision in first instance on request of the protected person who decides to reside or already resides or decides to stay or already stays in another Member State with the exception of Denmark or Ireland has to issue a European protective order if this is necessary for continuing the protection of the protected person in the Member State concerned.
(2) When taking this decision on issuing a European protection order the court shall take into account, inter alia, the length or the period the protected person intends to stay in the executing State and the seriousness of the need for protection.
(3) Before issuing a European protection order, unless this has already happened when the request was submitted, the protected person and, unless he/she already has been heard regarding the protections measure, the person causing danger shall be given the right to be heard.
(4) Issuing a European protection order is not admitted if the prerequisites for obtaining recognition and supervision pursuant to Chapter V or for a request for recognition and execution pursuant to one of the regulations indicated in § 124 item 1 lit. a or b or one of the conventions indicated in § 124 item 1 lit c or d prevail.
(5) Against the issuing or not issuing of a European protection order the office of public prosecution, the protected person and, unless he/she has already been heard regarding the protection measure, also the person causing danger have the right to file a complaint within 14 days to the Oberlandesgericht (Higher Regional Court). The protected person and the person causing danger have to be instructed on this right.
Request to Another Member State
§ 135. (1) The court has to transmit to the competent authority of the executing State the completed and signed European protection order (Annex XV) and, unless this State has declared to accept European protection orders also in the German language, a translation of it into one of the official languages of the executing State or any other language accepted by this State. The Federal Minister of Justice has to indicate by decree which Member States accept which official languages.
(2) For exchanges between authorities § 14 para. 1 to 5 shall be applied analogously. If the European protection order is not transmitted via mail, the competent authority of the executing State on its request has to be sent the original of the European protection order by mail.
Modification or Withdrawal of the European Protection Order
§ 136. (1) When the competent authority of the executing State after recognition of the European protection order is informed of a breach of the protection measures adopted on the basis of the order, the court has to examine whether there is reason to extend the probation period, to modify the order, to revoke the conditional sentence or the conditional release, to impose a sentence or to impose detention and whether therefore there is reason to modify or lift the measure and to revoke the European protection order. The competent authority of the executing State has to be informed of the result of this examination, if applicable by attaching the modified European protection order without delay.
(2) If the order is contained in one of the decisions pursuant to chapter V that has been transferred to another Member State or will be transferred after issuing the European protection order and if the competent authority of the executing State has taken subsequent decisions within the meaning of § 2 item 7 lit. f pursuant to § 90 para. 1 that have an effect on the protection measure on which the European protection order is based, the court without delay has to modify or revoke the European protection order.
Responding to Requests
§ 137. A request from the competent authority of the executing State to communicate whether the protection provided for on the basis of the European protection order is still necessary has to be answered without delay.
Chapter VII
Final Provisions, Provisions on entering into force and on transition
References
§ 138. Any references contained in the present federal law to other legal provisions of the Federal State or to agreements under international law shall be understood to be references to the respectively applicable version.
Provisions on entering into force and on transition with regard to the original version
§ 139. (1) The present federal law shall enter into force on 1 May 2004, except for Part Two of Chapter III. As of that date, the following agreements under international law shall be replaced by the present federal law in the relations to those Member States that already apply the European arrest warrant:
	1.	the European Extradition Convention of 13 December 1957, Federal Law Gazette No. 320/1969, the attaching Second Additional Protocol of 17 March 1978, Federal Law Gazette No. 297/1983, the Treaty of 31 January 1972 between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on Supplementing the European Extradition Convention of 13 December 1957 and Facilitating its Application, Federal Law Gazette No. 35/1977, the Treaty of 20 February 1973 between the Republic of Austria and the Italian Republic on Supplementing the European Extradition Convention of 13 December 1957 and Facilitating its Application, Federal Law Gazette No. 559/1977, and the European Convention to Fight Terrorism of 27 January 1977, Federal Law Gazette No. 446/1978, to the extent that it relates to extradition,
	2.	the Convention of Member States of the European Union on Simplifying and Modernizing the Procedure to Communicate Extradition Requests of 26 May 1989, Federal Law Gazette III No. 136/1999,
	3.	the Convention of 10 March 1995 on the Simplified Extradition Procedure between the Member States of the European Union, Federal Law Gazette III No. 169/2000,
	4.	the Convention of 27 September 1996 on Extradition between Member States of the European Union, Federal Law Gazette III No. 143/2001,
	5.	Title III of Chapter 4 of the Convention of 19 June 1990 on the Application of the Schengen Convention of 14 June 1985 relating to the gradual removal of controls at common borders, Federal Law Gazette III No. 90/1997.
(2) (Constitutional Provision) Until 1 January 2009 the execution of a European arrest warrant against an Austrian national shall also be refused in cases in which the offence for which the European arrest warrant was issued does not carry a court punishment under Austrian law.
(3) The present federal law shall not be applied to requests for extradition that were received by the Austrian authorities before the entry into force of the present federal law.
(4) The present federal law shall not apply to the execution of European arrest warrants of other member States if the offences underlying these arrest warrants were committed, at least in part, before 1 August 2002. To these European arrest warrants the ARHG in the version being in force at the time of the decision, European Union law in force at that time and other bilateral agreements that have been in force on 1 January 2004 shall be applied.
(5) If, after the entry into force of the present federal law, a Member State requests the surrender of a person for offences committed exclusively after 7 August 2002, without there being a European arrest warrant, the present federal law shall also be applied, if there is a court arrest warrant or a document to the same effect, or an enforceable punishing decision of that State which contains the data of a European arrest warrant. § 19 para. 2 shall apply in analogy.
(6) Obtaining a surrender from France for offences that were committed, at least in part, prior to 1 November 1993, as well as from Italy for offences that were committed, at least in part, prior to 7 August 2002, shall be guided by the provisions of the ARHG and the bilateral agreements in force on 7 August 2002 with these States.
(7) Part Two of Chapter III shall enter into force on 1 January 2005.
Provisions on entering into force and on transition with regard to amendments
§ 140. (1) § 24 and § 29 para. 3, as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 164/2004, shall enter into force on 1 January 2005.
(2) § 1, § 2, § 52 to § 52n and § 53 to § 53m, as well as the Annexes I, V and VI in the version of the federal law published in Federal Law Gazette I No. 38/2007 shall enter into force on 1 July 2007.
(3) The provisions of § 3 para. 1, § 4 para. 2, § 7 para. 3, § 16 para. 1 and para. 2, § 17 para. 2 and para. 3, § 19 para. 2 and para. 3 § 20 para. 1 to 4, § 21 para. 1, 2 and 4, § 23 para. 2, § 24 para. 2 to 4, § 25 para. 1 and para. 2, § 27 para. 1, § 29 apra. 1 to 3, § 31 para. 4 and 6, § 43 para. 1 and 2, § 44 para. 1, § 46 apra. 1 and para. 2, § 48 para. 1, § 50, § 61 para. 1 to 3 and para. 5, § 68 para. 1, § 70 para. 1 and para. 2, § 71, § 72 para. 1 and para. 3, § 73 para. 1 and para. 2, § 74, § 76 para. 1 and para. 3, as well as the title introducing § 13 in the version of the federal law published in Federal Law Gazette I No. 112/2007 shall enter into force on 1 January 2008.
(4) (Constitutional provision) § 5 para. 6 in the version of the federal law published in Federal Law Gazette I No. 112/2007 shall enter into force on 1 January 2008.
(5) Without prejudice to para. 7, §§ 2, 11, 21 para. 1, 29 para. 1, 32 para. 4, 39-42g, 49, 52a para. 1 item 8, 52b para. 1, 52d para. 3, 53a items 10 and 10a, 53b para. 1 and 53b para. 4 and 57a as well as Annexes II, V, VI, VII and VIII as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 134/2011 shall enter into force on 1 January 2012. From this day on §§ 39 to 42g replace the following international law conventions in relation to every Member State in which corresponding provisions for the enforcement of foreign custodial sentences and preventive measures involving deprivation of liberty have entered into force starting from the time they entered into force:
	1.	the European Convention on the transfer of sentenced persons of 21 March 1983 (ETS No. 112, Federal Law Gazette No. 524/1986) and the Additional Protocol thereto of 18 December 1997 (ETS No. 167, Federal Law Gazette III No. 26/2001)
	2.	the European Convention on the International Validity of Criminal Judgements of 28 May 1970 (ETS No. 70, Federal Law Gazette No. 249/1980) and
	3.	Title III, Chapter 5 of the Convention of 19 June 1990 implementing the Schengen Convention of 14 June 1985 on the gradual abolition of checks at common borders (Federal Law Gazette III No. 90/1997)
(6) §§ 77 to 80 as well as Annex IX as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 134/2011 shall enter into force on 27 April 2012.
(7) In relation to Italy §§ 11, 40 item 9, 52a para. 1 item 8, 53a item 10 and item 10a as well as Annexes II, V and VI as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 134/2011 shall enter into force on 1 January 2014.
(8) The provisions of Subdivision One of Part One of Chapter III shall not be applied to judgments including certificates according to Annex VII that are received before 5 December 2011 by Austrian authorities.
(Note: Para. 9 repealed by Art. 4 item 43, Federal Law Gazette I No. 20/2020) 
(10) In relation to Poland in cases of judgments delivered before the end of 5 December 2016 the consent of the sentenced person is required
	1.	for the decision that enforcement is admissible in derogation of § 39 para. 1 item 1 lit. a and
	2.	for the request of enforcement in derogation of § 42 para. 1 item 1 lit. a.

(11) § 53b para. 4, § 53i item 1 and § 79 para. 1 as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 50/2012 shall enter into force on 1 September 2012.
(12) §§ 1 para. 1 item 1 lit. e and f, para. 2 2 items 2,  3, 3a, 7 lit. c, d, f and g and item 11, 5a, 16a, 24 para. 4, 29 para. 2a, 41j item 1, 42b, 42e para. 1 and 3, 42f para. 1, 45 para. 2, 47 para. 1 item 3, 52, 52a para. 1 item 9, 52b para. 2, 52c para. 2 item 4 and para. 4, 52e para. 1 item 3 and para. 3 (note: correct: para. 2), 52f item 2, 52i item 6, 52l para. 3, 52m, 53 para. 3, 57a, 59a to 59c, 63, 64, 65 para. 2, 67, 68, 68a, 69, 70 para. 1 and 2 and §§ 81 to 99 and 100 to 121 and Annexes X to XIII as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 175/2013 shall enter into force on 1 August 2013.
(Note: Para. 13 repealed by Art. 1 item 23, Federal Law Gazette I No. 28/2018)
(14) § 1 para. 1 item 1 lit. g, § 2 items 3a, 7 lit. h, 12 and 13, §§ 5a, 39 para. 1 items 1 and 3, 41i para. 3, 41j item 1, 42 para. 1 item 1, 42b para. 4, 42c item 2, 57 para. 3, 59a para. 3, 59b as well as §§ 122 to 137 and Annexes XV and XVI as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 107/2014 shall enter into force on 1 January 2015.
(15) § 16a para. 1 item 3 and item 5 as well as para. 2, § 21 para. 2a and § 30a as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 121/2016 shall enter into force on 1 January 2017.
(16) §§ 1 para. 1 lt. h, 2 item 3, 4a, 5a, 7 lit. a, 14, 15, §§ 45 para. 1 and 2, 55 to 59a, 61 para. 4, 62 para. 1, 95 para. 1, 134 para. 1 and annexes XVII to XIX as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 28/2018 shall enter into force on 1 July 2018.
(17) The entries in the table of contents regarding §§ 16a, 27a, 38, 63, 65, 97a and regarding the appendices, § 2 items 10 and 11, § 3 para. 4, § 16a para. 1 item 3, para. 2 and 3 including headings, § 19 para. 4, § 27a including heading, § 30a para. 2 and 3, § 31 para. 8, §§ 36, 40 item 2, § 42b para. 7a, § 42e para. 3, § 42f para. 1, § 52a para. 1 item 10, § 53a item 11, § 55c para. 3 and 5, § 57a para. 1, § 63 including heading, § 64 para. 1 to 4, § 65 including heading, §§ 67, 68a para. 1 item 3, § 97a including heading, § 120 para. 2 and the amendments of Annex IV including appendices as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 20/2020 shall enter into force on 1 June 2020. At the same time § 38 including heading, § 64 para. 5 to 7, § 68 including heading, § 68a para. 2 to 4, § 140 para. 9 and Annex XIV are repealed.
(18) (constitutional provision) § 5 para. 4 and 6 as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 20/2020 shall enter into force on 1 June 2020.
(19) The entries in the table of contents, § 2, § 5a, § 19 para. 1, § 19a including heading, § 21 para. 2, § 29 para. 2 and 2b, § 31 para. 4 and 5, § 33a including heading, Subdivision One of Part Two of Chapter III, denomination and heading of Subdivision Two of Part Two of Chapter III, § 45 para. 2, § 46 para. 1 and 3, § 50, the heading of Subdivison One of Part Three of Chapter III, § 52 including heading, the denomination of § 52a1, § 52b, § 52c para. 2 item 2 and para. 4, § 52c, § 52e para. 1 item 1, § 52i item 1 and 2, the denomination of Subdivision Three of Part Three of Chapter III, § 52k para. 1a, § 55a para. 1 item 13, § 56 para. 1, § 61 para. 6, denomination and heading of Part Three of Chapter IV, § 76 para. 4 and § 80 as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 94/2021 shall enter into force on the day following the publication. The entry regarding § 27 in the table of contents and § 27 including heading shall be repealed on the day following the publication.

Implementation of directives of the European Union
§ 141. (1) § 1 para. 1 item 1 lit. g, § 2 item 3a, item 7 lit. h, items 12 and 13, §§ 122 to 138 and Annexes XV to XVI as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 107/2014 implement directive 2011/99/EU on the European protection order, Official Journal L 2011/338, 2.
(2) § 16a para. 1 item 3 and item 5 as well as para. 2, § 21 para. 2a and § 30a as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 121/2016 implement Directive 2013/48/EU on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in European arrest warrant proceedings, and on the right to have a third party informed upon deprivation of liberty and to communicate with third persons and with consular authorities while deprived of liberty, Official Journal L 294 of 6 November 2013, page 1.
(3) § 1 para. 1 lit. h, § 2 item 3 lit. a, 4a, 5a and 7 lit. a and 14, § 45 para. 1 and 2, §§ 55 to 56b, § 57a, § 61 para. 4 and § 62 para. 1 as well as Annexes XVII to XIX as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 28/2018 implement directive 2014/41/EU on the European Investigation Order, Official Journal L 2014/130, 1
(4) §§ 5 to 38 implement directive (EU) 2016/800 on procedural guaranties in criminal matters for children who are suspects or persons accused in criminal cases, Official Journal No. L 132 of 21 May 2016, page 1.
(5) §§ 5 to 38 implement directive (EU) 2016/1919 on legal aid for suspects and persons accused in criminal proceedings as well as persons searched for in proceedings to execute a European arrest warrant, Official Journal No. L 297 of 4 Novembar 106 page 1.
Execution
§ 142. The Federal Minister of Justice and the Federal Minister of the Interior – depending on the scope of their competences – shall be responsible for implementing the present federal law.
