General Provisions
Scope of application
§ 1. This Federal Act governs the publication of information of general interest and access to information in the sphere of activity or business area of
	1.	the bodies of the Federation, the provinces, the municipalities and associations of municipalities,
	2.	the bodies of the self-administering bodies established by law,
	3.	the bodies of other legal and natural persons, insofar as they are entrusted with the conduct of federal or provincial administration business,
	4.	the bodies of foundations, funds and institutions subject to the control of the Court of Audit or a provincial court of audit, and
	5.	companies subject to the control of the Court of Audit or a provincial court of audit, provided that, in the case of participation by the Federation, the province or the municipality alone or jointly with other legal entities subject to the competence of the Court of Audit, there is a participation of at least 50% of the capital stock, share capital or equity capital in the company or the Federation, the province or the municipality alone or together with other legal entities subject to the competence of the Court of Audit actually controls the company through financial or other economic or organizational measures, or it is a company of any further level for which the requirements pursuant to this subpara are met.
Definition of terms
§ 2. (1) Information within the meaning of this Federal Act is any record serving official or business purposes in the sphere of activity of a body, in the sphere of activity of a foundation, a fund or an institution or in the business area of a company, irrespective of the form in which it exists and is available.
(2) Information of general interest within the meaning of this Federal Act is information that concerns or is relevant to a general group of persons, in particular such business classifications, rules of procedure, activity reports, official gazettes, official statistics, studies, expert opinions, surveys, statements and contracts prepared or commissioned by bodies required to provide information. Contracts with a value (§§ 13 to 18 of the Federal Procurement Act 2018 – BvergG 2018, Federal Law Gazette I No. 65/2018) of at least EUR 100,000 are in any case of general interest.
Competence
§ 3. (1) The body responsible for publishing information of general interest is the body that created or commissioned the information. If identical copies of information exist, only the reference version from which the copies are derived shall be published.
(2) The body responsible for providing access to information shall be the body to whose sphere of activity or business the information belongs.
(3) The information under this Federal Act shall be provided within the municipalities' and other self-administering bodies' own sphere of activity insofar as it is issued in matters that are to be dealt with by them within their own sphere of activity.
Chapter 2
Obligation to provide information
Obligation to proactively provide information
§ 4. (1) Information of general interest shall be published and made available on the Internet as soon as possible in a manner accessible to everyone by the bodies entrusted with the conduct of the business of the federal administration or the provincial administration, the bodies of the courts of justice, the administrative courts, the Higher Administrative Court and by the Constitutional Court, to the extent it is not subject to confidentiality (§ 6) and as long as it may be assumed that a general interest therein exists. Municipalities with fewer than 5,000 residents shall not be obliged to publish such information; they may publish such information in accordance with this provision.
(Note: Para 2 shall enter into force at the end of the third month following the date of the public notice on the availability of the information registry under § 5 para 5)
Information Registry
§ 5. (Note: Paras 1 to 4 shall enter into force at the end of the third month following the date of the public notice on the availability of the information registry under § 5 para 5)
(5) The availability of the information registry shall be publicly announced by the Federal Minister of Finance in the Federal Law Gazette I.
Confidentiality
§ 6. (1) Information is not intended for publication and shall not be made available to the extent this is necessary and proportionate
	1.	for compelling reasons of integration or foreign policy, in particular in accordance with provisions of European Union law that are directly applicable, or for compliance with obligations under international law,
	2.	in the interests of national security,
	3.	in the interests of comprehensive national defense,
	4.	in the interests of maintaining public order and security,
	5.	in the interests of the unimpaired preparation of any decision, in terms of the unimpaired lawful making of decisions and their immediate preparation, in particular
	a)	of acts by the Federal President, the Federal Government, the Federal Ministers, the State Secretaries, the provincial Government, individual members thereof, and the provincial Governor, the district administrative authorities, the municipal bodies and the bodies of other self-administering bodies,
	b)	in the interests of official or judicial proceedings, any audit or other action by the body, as well as for the protection of the legal confidentiality of negotiations, consultations, and votes, 
	6.	to prevent significant economic or financial damage to the bodies, territorial authorities or other self-administering bodies, or
	7.	in the overriding legitimate interest of another person, in particular
	a)	to protect the right to protection of personal data,
	b)	to protect professional, business, or trade secrets,
	c)	to maintain banking secrecy (§ 38 of the Banking Act, Federal Law Gazette No. 532/1993),
	d)	to maintain editorial secrecy (§ 31 of the Media Act, Federal Law Gazette No. 314/1981) or
	e)	to protect intellectual property rights of the affected persons,
and is not otherwise provided for by statutory law. To this end, all relevant interests, on the one hand in the granting of the information, including in particular the exercise of freedom of expression, and on the other hand in the confidentiality of the information, shall be balanced. 
(2) If the requirements in para 1 only apply to part of the information, only this part shall be subject to confidentiality.
Chapter 3
Procedure
Request for information; applicable law
§ 7. (1) Access to information may be requested in writing, orally, or by telephone, in any technically possible and intended form.
(2) The information shall be identified as precisely as possible. The applicant may be instructed to provide a request made orally or by telephone in writing, if the contents or the scope of the requested information is not sufficiently clear from the request.
(3) If a body receives a request for which it has no competence, it shall forward the request to the competent body without undue delay or refer the applicant to such body. 
(4) The procedure regarding a request for information is an official procedure pursuant to Article I para 2 subpara 1 of the Introductory Act to the Administrative Procedure Acts 2008 – EGVG, Federal Law Gazette I No. 87/2008.

Time limit
§ 8. (1) Access to the information shall be granted without undue delay, but at the latest within four weeks of receipt of the request by the competent body. If the information is subject to confidentiality (§ 6), the applicant shall be notified within the same period that access has not been granted.
(2) If access to the information cannot be granted within the period pursuant to para 1 for special reasons and in the case of § 10, the period may be extended by a further four weeks. The applicant shall be notified of this within the period specified in para 1, stating the reasons.
Information
§ 9. (1) If possible, the information shall be made available in the form requested, otherwise in the most direct form possible; in any case, information shall be provided in the subject matter. Reference to information that has already been published or is more easily accessible by other means is permissible.
(2) If the right to information exists only in part with regard to the information requested (§ 6 para 2), the information shall be provided to this extent, provided this is possible and does not involve disproportionate effort.
(3) Access to information shall not be granted if the request for information is manifestly frivolous or if or to the extent the provision of the information would significantly and disproportionately impair the other activities of the body.
Affected persons
§ 10. (1) If the provision of information interferes in the rights of another person (§ 6 para 1 subpara 7), the competent body shall, if possible, hear that person before providing the information. If the person concerned has objected to the provision of the information or has not been heard and the information is nevertheless provided, he or she shall be notified in writing if possible.
(2) If the request (§ 7) shows that it not only concerns the private interest of the applicant, but also asserts a right to access to information in accordance with Art. 10 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Federal Law Gazette No. 210/1958, or Art. 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, OJ C 83, 30.03.2010, p. 389, the hearing or notification of the person concerned shall be omitted insofar as this is required on the basis of these provisions.
Legal protection
§ 11. (1) If access to the information is not granted, the body obliged to provide information shall issue a decision on this within two months of receipt of the request upon written request by the person requesting the information.
(2) If an appeal is lodged against such a decision, as in the case of a complaint alleging breach of the duty to reach a timely decision, the administrative court must make a decision within two months. The deadline for issuing a preliminary decision on a complaint (§ 14 Administrative Court Procedure Act – VwGVG, Federal Law Gazette I No. 33/2013) is three weeks. § 16 para 1 VwGVG does not apply; the authority must submit the appeal to the administrative court without delay, including the files of the administrative proceedings.
(3) In the event of unlawful non-granting of access to information, the administrative court must rule that access must be granted and to what extent. 
Fees
§ 12. (1) Submissions (requests for information), requests for the provision of information and other requests in the procedure for the provision of information, information and notices under this federal law are exempt from federal administrative charges and fees pursuant to the Fees Act 1957, Federal Law Gazette No. 267/1957.
(2) (Constitutional provision) Submissions (requests for information), requests for the provision of information and other requests in the procedure for the provision of information, information and notices under this Federal Act shall be exempt from the administrative charges of provinces and municipalities.
Chapter 4
Private parties obliged to provide information
Foundations, funds, institutions and companies not entrusted with the conduct of federal or provincial administration business
§ 13. (1) The provisions of Chapter 3 of this Federal Act shall apply mutatis mutandis and in accordance with the following provisions to foundations, funds, institutions and companies (§ 1 subpara 5) subject to the control of the Court of Audit or a provincial court of audit and to legal protection against their decisions, unless they are entrusted with the conduct of business of the federal administration or provincial administration.
(2) Information is not to be made accessible to the extent this is necessary in application mutatis mutandis of § 6 or to prevent impairment of their competitive strength.
(3) Listed companies and legally independent companies that are directly or indirectly under the controlling influence of a listed company due to shareholdings or otherwise (dependent companies) are exempt from the duty to provide information under this Federal Act.
(4) The request for information must be submitted in writing and designated as a request pursuant to this Federal Act. The information requested must be specified in the request. The identity of the applicant must be substantiated in a suitable form.
Legal protection
§ 14. (1) The following shall decide on the non-provision of information by foundations, funds, institutions and companies, as far as these are not entrusted with the conduct of business of the federal administration or provincial administration
	1.	the Federal Administrative Court, if foundations, funds or institutions administered by federal bodies or by persons appointed for this purpose by federal bodies (groups of persons), or companies in which the Federation alone or jointly with other legal entities subject to the competence of the Court of Audit holds at least 50% of the share capital or equity capital or which the Federation alone or jointly with other legal entities subject to the competence of the Court of Audit actually controls through financial or other economic or organizational measures, do not provide the information;
	2.	otherwise the administrative court in the province.
If the case does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Federal Administrative Court, the administrative court in the province in whose district the foundation, fund, institution or company has its registered office shall have local jurisdiction. If jurisdiction cannot be determined on this basis, the administrative court in the Province of Vienna shall have local jurisdiction.
(2) If the requested information has not been provided, the applicant may file a request for a decision on the dispute by the administrative court within four weeks of the expiry of the deadline for the provision of information. In the event of failure to meet this deadline, reinstatement of the status quo ante shall be granted at the request of the applicant for information if the latter can credibly demonstrate that he was prevented from meeting the deadline by an unforeseen or unavoidable event and that he was not at fault or was only negligent to a lesser degree. § 71 paras 2 to 7 and § 72 para 1 General Administrative Procedure Act 1991 – AVG, Federal Law Gazette No. 51/1991, shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(3) §§ 2, 4 to 6, 8a, 17, 21, 23 to 26, 28 para 1, 29 to 34 and the Chapter 4 of the VwGVG shall apply mutatis mutandis to the proceedings under this provision.
(4) The request (para 2) must include:
	1.	the request for information and the extent to which it was not complied with,
	2.	the name of the foundation, fund, institution or company,
	3.	the grounds on which the allegation of unlawfulness of the failure to provide the information is based, and
	4.	the information required to assess whether the deadline for provided information has expired and the request has been submitted on time.
(5) Such a request and statements in the proceedings must be submitted directly to the administrative court.
(6) The administrative court shall notify the foundation, the fund, the institution or the company of the request and, if no oral hearing is scheduled at the same time, leave it free to make a statement.
(7) Parties to the proceedings are the applicant and the foundation, the fund, the institution or the company from which the information is requested.
(8) The administrative court shall decide on the request within two months of receipt thereof. In the event of unlawful refusal to grant access to information, the administrative court must rule that access must be granted and to what extent. The foundations, funds, institutions and companies are obliged to use the legal means at their disposal to immediately restore the legal situation in the case in question in accordance with the legal opinion of the administrative court.
Chapter 5
Consultation and support
Data Protection Authority
§ 15. (1) (Constitutional provision) The Data Protection Authority shall advise and support the bodies and institutions obliged to provide information by providing guidelines and offers for further training in data protection issues relating to the execution of freedom of information.
(2) The Data Protection Authority shall evaluate the application of this Act on an ongoing basis. It shall inform the public account about its activities under this Act.
Chapter 6
Final Provisions
Relation to other legislation
§ 16. To the extent other federal or provincial laws contain special regulations on access to information or special public electronic registers have been established, this Federal Act shall not apply.
References
§ 17. To the extent reference is made in this Federal Act to provisions of other federal laws, these shall apply in their respective valid versions.
Equal linguistic treatment  
§ 18. To the extent the terms used in this Federal Act refer to natural persons, the chosen form shall apply regardless of gender. When applying these terms to specific natural persons, the respective gender-specific form shall be used.
Execution
§ 19. (1) This Federal Act shall be executed by the following bodies: 
	1.	the Federal Government, or, in matters in which information is to be provided and which are a province matter, the provincial government,
	2.	in respect of § 5, the Federal Chancellor in agreement with the Federal Minister of Finance,
	3.	in respect of § 12, the Federal Minister of Finance, and
	4.	in respect of § 15 the Federal Minister of Justice.

(2) The issue of implementing ordinances shall be the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor in agreement with the Federal Minister of Finance in respect of § 5, and the Federal Minister of Finance in respect of § 12, otherwise the Federal Chancellor.
Entry into force, abrogation; transitional provisions
§ 20. (1) (Constitutional provision) § 12 para 2 and § 15 para 1 in the version of Federal Law Gazette I No. 5/2024 shall enter into force on 1 September 2025. § 4 para 2 shall enter into force at the end of the third month following the date of the announcement of the availability of the information register pursuant to § 5 para 5.
(2) § 5 paras 1 to 4 shall enter into force at the end of the third month following the date of the announcement of the availability of the information register pursuant to § 5 para 5. The remaining provisions of this Federal Act as amended by Federal Act Federal Law Gazette I No. 5/2024 shall enter into force on 1 September 2025. The Data Protection Authority shall prepare a report on the results of the evaluation no later than three years after this date and submit it to the Federal Minister of Justice. This report must be submitted by the Minister to the Federal Government and subsequently to the National Council and the Federal Council, and made publicly accessible by the Data Protection Authority.
(3) § 4 para 1 as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 5/2024 shall only apply to information of general interest that arises on or after 1 September 2025, information of general interest that arises earlier may be published in accordance with the aforementioned provision.
